---
reference_id: PMID:40517007
title: "Retifanlimab with carboplatin and paclitaxel for locally recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal (POD1UM-303/InterAACT-2): a global, phase 3 randomised controlled trial."
authors:
- Rao S
- Samalin-Scalzi E
- Evesque L
- Ben Abdelghani M
- Morano F
- Roy A
- Dahan L
- Tamberi S
- Dhadda AS
- Saunders MP
- Casanova N
- Guimbaud R
- Lievre A
- Maurel J
- Fakih M
- Tian C
- Harrison J
- Jones MM
- Cornfeld M
- Spano JP
- Rochefort P
- POD1UM-303/InterAACT-2 study investigators
journal: Lancet
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)00631-2
keywords:
- Humans
- "Carboplatin/administration & dosage, therapeutic use, adverse effects"
- "Paclitaxel/administration & dosage, adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Male
- Female
- Middle Aged
- "Anus Neoplasms/drug therapy, pathology, mortality"
- Double-Blind Method
- Aged
- "Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/therapeutic use, adverse effects, administration & dosage"
- "Carcinoma, Squamous Cell/drug therapy, mortality, pathology"
- "Neoplasm Recurrence, Local/drug therapy"
- Adult
- Progression-Free Survival
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Retifanlimab with carboplatin and paclitaxel for locally recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal (POD1UM-303/InterAACT-2): a global, phase 3 randomised controlled trial.
**Authors:** Rao S, Samalin-Scalzi E, Evesque L, Ben Abdelghani M, Morano F, Roy A, Dahan L, Tamberi S, Dhadda AS, Saunders MP, Casanova N, Guimbaud R, Lievre A, Maurel J, Fakih M, Tian C, Harrison J, Jones MM, Cornfeld M, Spano JP, Rochefort P, POD1UM-303/InterAACT-2 study investigators
**Journal:** Lancet (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1016/S0140-6736(25)00631-2](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(25)00631-2)

## Content

1. Lancet. 2025 Jun 14;405(10495):2144-2152. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)00631-2.

Retifanlimab with carboplatin and paclitaxel for locally recurrent or metastatic 
squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal (POD1UM-303/InterAACT-2): a global, 
phase 3 randomised controlled trial.

Rao S(1), Samalin-Scalzi E(2), Evesque L(3), Ben Abdelghani M(4), Morano F(5), 
Roy A(6), Dahan L(7), Tamberi S(8), Dhadda AS(9), Saunders MP(10), Casanova 
N(11), Guimbaud R(12), Lievre A(13), Maurel J(14), Fakih M(15), Tian C(16), 
Harrison J(16), Jones MM(16), Cornfeld M(16), Spano JP(17), Rochefort P(18); 
POD1UM-303/InterAACT-2 study investigators.

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Sutton, Surrey, UK. Electronic 
address: sheela.rao@rmh.nhs.uk.
(2)Institut Régional du Cancer de Montpellier, Montpellier, France.
(3)Centre Antoine Lacassagne, Nice, France.
(4)Centre Paul Strauss, Strasbourg, France.
(5)Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.
(6)Flinders Medical Centre, Flinders University, Bedford Park, SA, Australia.
(7)Hôpital de la Timone, Marseille, France.
(8)Ospedale Santa Maria delle Croci, Ravenna, Italy; Department of Medical and 
Surgical Sciences, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(9)Castle Hill Hospital, Cottingham, Yorkshire, UK.
(10)The Christie Hospital, Manchester, UK.
(11)Leeds Cancer Centre, Leeds, UK.
(12)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire (CHU) de Toulouse, Toulouse, France.
(13)CHU Rennes-Hôpital Pontchaillou, Rennes, France.
(14)Hospital Clinic de Barcelona, CIBEREHD, Barcelona, Spain.
(15)City of Hope National Medical Center, Duarte, CA, USA.
(16)Incyte, Wilmington, DE, USA.
(17)Groupe Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.
(18)Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon, France.

BACKGROUND: Retifanlimab has activity in programmed death ligand 1-positive 
advanced squamous cell anal carcinoma (SCAC) that has progressed on platinum 
chemotherapy. We aimed to prospectively assess the benefit of adding 
retifanlimab to initial carboplatin-paclitaxel for this disease.
METHODS: This global, multicentre, double-blind, randomised, controlled, phase 3 
trial was done at 70 centres in 12 countries across the EU, Australia, Japan, 
the UK, and the USA. Patients aged ≥18 years with inoperable locally recurrent 
or metastatic SCAC, an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 
0 or 1, no previous systemic therapy, and well controlled HIV (ie, CD4+ count 
>200/μL and undetectable viral load) were eligible. Patients were randomly 
assigned (1:1) to retifanlimab (500 mg intravenous) or placebo every 4 weeks 
with standard carboplatin-paclitaxel for up to 1 year. Patients in the placebo 
group could cross over to retifanlimab monotherapy on confirmed disease 
progression. The primary endpoint was independently assessed progression-free 
survival (ie, time from date of randomisation to date of first documented 
progressive disease or death due to any cause) per Response Evaluation Criteria 
in Solid Tumours version 1.1. Efficacy was assessed by intention to treat. This 
trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04472429) and EUDRA-CT 
(2020-000826-24) and is active but closed to enrolment.
FINDINGS: Between Nov 12, 2020, and July 3, 2023, 376 patients were assessed for 
eligibility and 308 were randomly assigned to retifanlimab plus 
carboplatin-paclitaxel (n=154) or placebo plus carboplatin-paclitaxel (n=154). 
222 (72%) of 308 patients were female and 86 (28%) were male. Median 
progression-free survival was 9·3 months (95% CI 7·5-11·3) in the retifanlimab 
group and 7·4 months (7·1-7·7) in the placebo group (hazard ratio 0·63 [95% CI 
0·47-0·84]; one-sided p=0·0006). Serious and grade 3 or worse adverse events 
were more frequent in the retifanlimab plus carboplatin-paclitaxel group 
compared with the placebo plus carboplatin-paclitaxel group (47·4% vs 38·8% and 
83·1% vs 75·0%, respectively). The most common grade ≥3 adverse events were 
neutropenia (35·1% for retifanlimab plus carboplatin-paclitaxel vs 29·6% for 
placebo plus carboplatin-paclitaxel) and anaemia (19·5% vs 20·4%). Four fatal 
adverse events occurred in the retifanlimab plus carboplatin-paclitaxel group, 
only one (pancytopenia) of which was treatment related. One fatal adverse event 
occurred in the placebo plus carboplatin-paclitaxel group and was not treatment 
related.
INTERPRETATION: Retifanlimab provides clinical benefit, with a manageable safety 
profile, when added to first-line chemotherapy in advanced squamous cell 
carcinoma of the anal canal. These results suggest retifanlimab with carboplatin 
plus paclitaxel should be considered as the new standard of care for patients 
with advanced squamous cell anal carcinoma.
FUNDING: Incyte.

Copyright © 2025 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an Open 
Access article under the CC BY 4.0 license. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(25)00631-2
PMID: 40517007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests SR reports an advisory 
role within AstraZeneca, Bayer, BeiGene, Hookipa, Incyte, Merck Serono, Nordic 
Pharma, Seagen, Servier, and Takeda; expert testimony to Boehringer Ingelheim; 
speaker invitations from Bayer, Merck Serono, and Servier; and travel grants 
from Incyte, Servier and BMS. ES-S reports an advisory role within Astellas, 
BeiGene, BMS, and Pierre Fabre Oncology; speakers bureau participation for BMS, 
MSD, Pierre Fabre Oncology, and Servier; and receiving travel grants from Amgen, 
Merck Serono, MSD, and Pierre Fabre Oncology. LE reports an advisory role within 
Astellas; and honoraria from AstraZeneca, Servier, BMS, MSD, Merck Serono, and 
Pierre Fabre. MBA reports consultancy work for Merck Serono; membership of an 
advisory board within Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, BMS, Incyte, Merck, Pierre 
Fabre, and Servier; and a travel grant from Roche. FM reports honoraria from 
Pierre Fabre and Servier; travel grants from Amgen, Pierre Fabre, and Servier; 
and an institutional research grant from Incyte. AR reports an advisory role 
with AstraZeneca, MSD, BMS, BeiGene, Greywolf Therapeutics, and Medison Pharma; 
expert testimony for AstraZeneca; speaker invitations from Pierre Fabre, MSD, 
BMS, Ipsen, Servier, and Limbic Oncology; and institutional research grants from 
Specialised Therapeutics and Merck. LD reports honoraria from Amgen, BMS, Mylan, 
OSÉUS Médical, and Servier. ASD reports a travel grant from Novartis. MPS 
reports honoraria from Merck, Servier, GSK, Incyte, Nordic, Takeda, and Bayer. 
NC reports a travel grant from GenesisCare. RG reports honoraria from Advanced 
Accelerator Applications, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, BMS, Esteve, MSD, Novartis, 
Pierre Fabre, Roche, Servier, and Viatris; an advisory role with BMS (Mexico), 
MSD, and Pierre Fabre; and travel grants from Advanced Accelerator Applications, 
Amgen, MSD Oncology, Mylan, Pierre Fabre, and Merck. AL reports honoraria from 
Amgen, Astellas, AstraZeneca, BMS (Mexico), Esteve, Ipsen, LEO Pharma, MSD, 
Mylan, Pierre Fabre, Servier, and Viatris; an advisory role with Astellas 
Pharma, Bayer, BMS (Mexico), Incyte, Pierre Fabre, Servier, and Takeda; 
institutional research funding from Bayer and Lilly; and travel grants from 
Bayer, Esteve, Ipsen, Pierre Fabre, Servier, and Viatris. JM reports an advisory 
role with Advance Medical, Cancer Expert Now, Delcath Systems, and MSD; research 
grants from Amgen, Guardant Health, Incyte, Merck, and Terumo; travel grants 
from Amgen; and a leadership role with Grupo Español Multidisciplinar en Cáncer 
Digestivo. MF reports consultancy work with AbbVie, Adagene, AstraZeneca, Bayer, 
BMS, Incyte, Merck, Mirati, Pfizer, and Taiho; and an advisory role with Eisai, 
Entos, Janssen, Nouscom, Roche/Genentech, and Tempus. CT, JH, MMJ, and MC report 
employment with and stock ownership in Incyte. J-PS reports consultancy work 
with Incyte and Merck-MSD; an advisory board role within AstraZeneca, Daiichi 
Sankyo, Exact-Science, Gilead, Lilly, Novartis, Pierre Fabre Oncology, Pfizer, 
and Roche; and research grants from Incyte, LEO Pharma, and MSD Avenir. PR 
reports an advisory board role within Servier and travel grants from Amgen, 
Sanofi, and Servier. ST declares no competing interests.