---
reference_id: PMID:29813147
title: "Evaluation of Galcanezumab for the Prevention of Episodic Migraine: The EVOLVE-1 Randomized Clinical Trial."
authors:
- Stauffer VL
- Dodick DW
- Zhang Q
- Carter JN
- Ailani J
- Conley RR
journal: JAMA Neurol
year: '2018'
doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2018.1212
keywords:
- Adult
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/therapeutic use"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized"
- Double-Blind Method
- Female
- Humans
- Male
- Middle Aged
- "Migraine Disorders/drug therapy, immunology"
- Quality of Life
- Treatment Outcome
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Evaluation of Galcanezumab for the Prevention of Episodic Migraine: The EVOLVE-1 Randomized Clinical Trial.
**Authors:** Stauffer VL, Dodick DW, Zhang Q, Carter JN, Ailani J, Conley RR
**Journal:** JAMA Neurol (2018)
**DOI:** [10.1001/jamaneurol.2018.1212](https://doi.org/10.1001/jamaneurol.2018.1212)

## Content

1. JAMA Neurol. 2018 Sep 1;75(9):1080-1088. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2018.1212.

Evaluation of Galcanezumab for the Prevention of Episodic Migraine: The EVOLVE-1 
Randomized Clinical Trial.

Stauffer VL(1), Dodick DW(2), Zhang Q(1), Carter JN(1), Ailani J(3), Conley 
RR(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana.
(2)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Phoenix, Arizona.
(3)Department of Neurology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC.
(4)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore.

Erratum in
    JAMA Neurol. 2019 Jul 1;76(7):872. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2019.1177.

IMPORTANCE: Migraine is a disabling neurological disease characterized by severe 
headache attacks. Treatment options reduce migraine frequency for many patients, 
but adverse effects lead to discontinuation in many patients.
OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate that galcanezumab is superior to placebo in the 
prevention of episodic migraine with or without aura.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: The EVOLVE-1 (Evaluation of LY2951742 in the 
Prevention of Episodic Migraine 1) trial was a double-blind, randomized, 
placebo-controlled (January 11, 2016, to March 22, 2017) trial comparing 
galcanezumab (120 mg and 240 mg) vs placebo. Patients received treatments once 
monthly for 6 months (subcutaneous injection via prefilled syringe) and were 
followed up for 5 months after their last injection. It was a multicenter, 
clinic-based study involving 90 sites in North America. Participants in the 
study were adults (aged 18 to 65 years) with at least a 1-year history of 
migraine, 4 to 14 migraine headache days per month and a mean of at least 2 
migraine attacks per month within the past 3 months, and were diagnosed prior to 
age 50 years. During the study, no other preventive medications were allowed. A 
total of 1671 patients were assessed; 809 did not meet study entry or baseline 
criteria, and 858 were included in the intent-to-treat population.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomized (2:1:1) to monthly placebo, 
galcanezumab, 120 mg, and galcanezumab, 240 mg.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcome was overall mean change from 
baseline in the number of monthly migraine headache days during the treatment 
period. Secondary measures included at least 50%, at least 75%, and 100% 
reduction in monthly migraine headache days, migraine headache days with acute 
medication use, and scores from the Migraine-Specific Quality of Life 
questionnaire, Patient Global Impression of Severity, and Migraine Disability 
Assessment. Treatment-emergent adverse events and serious adverse events were 
reported.
RESULTS: Of the 1671 patients assessed, 858 (mean age, 40.7 years; 718 women 
[83.7%]) met study entry criteria and received at least 1 dose of 
investigational product. The primary objective was met for both galcanezumab 
doses; treatment with galcanezumab significantly reduced monthly migraine 
headache days (both P < .001) by 4.7 days (120 mg) and 4.6 days (240 mg) 
compared with placebo (2.8 days). All key secondary objectives were also 
significant after multiplicity adjustment. There were no meaningful differences 
between 120-mg and 240-mg doses of galcanezumab on measures of efficacy. 
Completion rate during treatment was high (81.9%; n = 718), and the incidence of 
discontinuation owing to adverse events was less than 5% across all treatment 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Galcanezumab 120-mg and 240-mg monthly injections 
provided clinical benefits and improved functioning. The incidence rate of 
adverse events was low, demonstrating the favorable tolerability profile of 
galcanezumab.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02614183.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2018.1212
PMCID: PMC6143119
PMID: 29813147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Drs Stauffer, 
Zhang, Carter, and Conley are full-time employees of Eli Lilly and Company 
and/or one of its subsidiaries and are minority holders of company stock. Dr 
Dodick has received compensation from serving on advisory boards and/or 
consulting within the past 5 years for Allergan, Amgen, Novartis, Alder, 
Arteaus, Pfizer, Colucid, Merck, NuPathe, Eli Lilly and Company, Autonomic 
Technologies, Ethicon J&J, Zogenix, Supernus, Labrys, Boston Scientific, 
Medtronic, St Jude, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Lundbeck, Impax, MAP, Electrocore, 
Tonix, Novartis, Teva, Alcobra, Zosano, Insys, Ipsen, GBS/Nocira, Acorda, 
eNeura, Charleston Laboratories, Gore, Biohaven, Bioventric, Electrocore, 
Magellan, Theranica, Xenon, and Dr Reddy’s/Promius Pharma. Dr Dodick owns equity 
in Epien, GBS/Nocira, Second Opinion, Healint, and Theranica. Dr Dodick has 
received funding for travel, speaking, editorial activities, or royalty payments 
from IntraMed, SAGE Publishing, Sun Pharma, Allergan, Oxford University Press, 
American Academy of Neurology, American Headache Society, West Virginia 
University Foundation, Canadian Headache Society, Healthlogix, Universal Meeting 
Management, WebMD, UptoDate, Medscape, Oregon Health Science Center, Albert 
Einstein University, University of Toronto, Starr Clinical, Decision Resources, 
Synergy, MedNet LLC, Peer View Institute for Medical Education, Medicom, 
Chameleon Communications, Academy for Continued Healthcare Learning, Haymarket 
Medical Education, Global Scientific Communications, HealthLogix, Miller 
Medical, MeetingLogiX, and Wiley Blackwell. Dr Dodick, through his employer, has 
consulting use agreements with NeuroAssessment Systems and Myndshft. He holds 
board of director positions with King-Devick Technologies and Epien Inc. He 
holds the following Patent 17189376.1-1466: vTitle: Botulinum Toxin Dosage 
Regimen for Chronic Migraine Prophylaxis (no compensation). Dr Ailani has 
provided consulting services to Alder, Allergan, Amgen, Avanir, Electrocore, Eli 
Lilly and Company, Promius, and Teva. Dr Ailani has received honoraria for 
speaking from Allergan, Amgen, Avanir, Electrocore, Eli Lilly and Company, 
Promius, and Teva. She has received honoraria for editorial services to Current 
Pain and Headache Reports, as well as research grants from Allergan and 
Theranica. No other disclosures were reported.