---
reference_id: PMID:16990386
title: The complement inhibitor eculizumab in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.
authors:
- Hillmen P
- Young NS
- Schubert J
- Brodsky RA
- Socié G
- Muus P
- Röth A
- Szer J
- Elebute MO
- Nakamura R
- Browne P
- Risitano AM
- Hill A
- Schrezenmeier H
- Fu CL
- Maciejewski J
- Rollins SA
- Mojcik CF
- Rother RP
- Luzzatto L
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2006'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa061648
keywords:
- Adolescent
- Adult
- Aged
- "Aged, 80 and over"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized"
- Complement C5/immunology
- Double-Blind Method
- Erythrocyte Transfusion
- Fatigue
- Female
- Hemoglobins/analysis
- "Hemoglobinuria, Paroxysmal/blood, drug therapy, therapy"
- Hemolysis/drug effects
- Humans
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Quality of Life
content_type: abstract_only
---

# The complement inhibitor eculizumab in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.
**Authors:** Hillmen P, Young NS, Schubert J, Brodsky RA, Socié G, Muus P, Röth A, Szer J, Elebute MO, Nakamura R, Browne P, Risitano AM, Hill A, Schrezenmeier H, Fu CL, Maciejewski J, Rollins SA, Mojcik CF, Rother RP, Luzzatto L
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2006)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa061648](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa061648)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2006 Sep 21;355(12):1233-43. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa061648.

The complement inhibitor eculizumab in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.

Hillmen P(1), Young NS, Schubert J, Brodsky RA, Socié G, Muus P, Röth A, Szer J, 
Elebute MO, Nakamura R, Browne P, Risitano AM, Hill A, Schrezenmeier H, Fu CL, 
Maciejewski J, Rollins SA, Mojcik CF, Rother RP, Luzzatto L.

Author information:
(1)Leeds General Infirmary, Leeds, United Kingdom. peter.hillmen@nhs.net

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Dec 28;355(26):2786; author reply 2787-8. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc062885.
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Dec 28;355(26):2787; author reply 2787-8.
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Dec 28;355(26):2787; author reply 2787-8.
    N Engl J Med. 2006 Dec 28;355(26):2786; author reply 2787-8.

BACKGROUND: We tested the safety and efficacy of eculizumab, a humanized 
monoclonal antibody against terminal complement protein C5 that inhibits 
terminal complement activation, in patients with paroxysmal nocturnal 
hemoglobinuria (PNH).
METHODS: We conducted a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, 
multicenter, phase 3 trial. Patients received either placebo or eculizumab 
intravenously; eculizumab was given at a dose of 600 mg weekly for 4 weeks, 
followed 1 week later by a 900-mg dose and then 900 mg every other week through 
week 26. The two primary end points were the stabilization of hemoglobin levels 
and the number of units of packed red cells transfused. Biochemical indicators 
of intravascular hemolysis and the patients' quality of life were also assessed.
RESULTS: Eighty-seven patients underwent randomization. Stabilization of 
hemoglobin levels in the absence of transfusions was achieved in 49% (21 of 43) 
of the patients assigned to eculizumab and none (0 of 44) of those assigned to 
placebo (P<0.001). During the study, a median of 0 units of packed red cells was 
administered in the eculizumab group, as compared with 10 units in the placebo 
group (P<0.001). Eculizumab reduced intravascular hemolysis, as shown by the 
85.8% lower median area under the curve for lactate dehydrogenase plotted 
against time (in days) in the eculizumab group, as compared with the placebo 
group (58,587 vs. 411,822 U per liter; P<0.001). Clinically significant 
improvements were also found in the quality of life, as measured by scores on 
the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue instrument 
(P<0.001) and the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer 
Quality of Life Questionnaire. Of the 87 patients, 4 in the eculizumab group and 
9 in the placebo group had serious adverse events, none of which were considered 
to be treatment-related; all these patients recovered without sequelae.
CONCLUSIONS: Eculizumab is an effective therapy for PNH.

2006 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa061648
PMID: 16990386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]