---
reference_id: PMID:9652559
title: Randomised trial of basiliximab versus placebo for control of acute cellular rejection in renal allograft recipients. CHIB 201 International Study Group.
authors:
- Nashan B
- Moore R
- Amlot P
- Schmidt AG
- Abeywickrama K
- Soulillou JP
journal: Lancet
year: '1997'
doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(97)09278-7
keywords:
- Acute Disease
- Adult
- Aged
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Basiliximab
- Cadaver
- Cyclosporine/therapeutic use
- Double-Blind Method
- Female
- Follow-Up Studies
- "Graft Rejection/epidemiology, prevention & control"
- Graft Survival
- Humans
- Immunosuppression Therapy
- "Immunosuppressive Agents/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Incidence
- Kidney Transplantation/immunology
- Male
- Middle Aged
- "Receptors, Interleukin-2/immunology"
- Recombinant Fusion Proteins
- Time Factors
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Randomised trial of basiliximab versus placebo for control of acute cellular rejection in renal allograft recipients. CHIB 201 International Study Group.
**Authors:** Nashan B, Moore R, Amlot P, Schmidt AG, Abeywickrama K, Soulillou JP
**Journal:** Lancet (1997)
**DOI:** [10.1016/s0140-6736(97)09278-7](https://doi.org/10.1016/s0140-6736(97)09278-7)

## Content

1. Lancet. 1997 Oct 25;350(9086):1193-8. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(97)09278-7.

Randomised trial of basiliximab versus placebo for control of acute cellular 
rejection in renal allograft recipients. CHIB 201 International Study Group.

Nashan B(1), Moore R, Amlot P, Schmidt AG, Abeywickrama K, Soulillou JP.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, Germany. nashan@TX-Amb.MH-Hannover.DE

Erratum in
    Lancet 1997 Nov 15;350(9089):1484.

BACKGROUND: Currently available immunosuppressive regimens for cadaver-kidney 
recipients are far from ideal because acute-rejection episodes occur in about 
30% to 50% of these patients. In the phase III study described here we assessed 
the ability of basiliximab, a chimeric interleukin (IL)-2 receptor monoclonal 
antibody, to prevent acute-rejection episodes in renal allograft recipients.
METHODS: 380 adult recipients of a primary cadaveric kidney transplant were 
randomly allocated, in this double-blind trial, to receive a 20 mg infusion of 
basiliximab on day 0 (day of surgery) and on day 4, to provide IL-2-receptor 
suppression for 4-6 weeks (n=193), or to receive placebo (n=187). Both groups 
received baseline dual immunosuppressive therapy with cyclosporin and steroids 
throughout the study. The primary outcome measure was incidence of 
acute-rejection episodes during the 6 months after transplantation. Safety and 
tolerability were monitored over the 12 months of the study.
FINDINGS: 376 patients were eligible for intention-to-treat analysis 
(basiliximab, n=190; placebo, n=186). No significant differences in patient 
characteristics were apparent. The incidence of biopsy-confirmed acute rejection 
6 months after transplantation was 51 (29.8%) of 171 in the basiliximab group 
compared with 73 (44.0%) of 166 in the placebo group (32% reduction; 14.2% 
difference [95% Kaplan-Meier CIs 3% to 24%], p=0.012). The incidence of 
steroid-resistant first rejection episodes that required antibody therapy was 
significantly lower in the basiliximab group (10% vs 23.1%, 13.1% difference 
[5.4% to 20.8%], p<0.001). At weeks 2 and 4 post-transplantation, the mean daily 
dose of steroids was significantly higher in the placebo group (p<0.001 with 
one-way analysis of variance). The incidence of graft loss at 12 months 
post-transplantation was 23 (12.1%) of 190 in the basiliximab group and 25 
(13.4%) of 186 in the placebo group (1.3% difference [-5% to 9%], p=0.591). The 
incidence of infection and other adverse events was similar in the two treatment 
groups. The acute tolerability of basiliximab was excellent, with no evidence of 
cytokine-release syndrome. 14 deaths (basiliximab n=9; placebo n=5; -2.0% 
difference [-6% to 2%], p=0.293) occurred during the 12-month study and a 
further three deaths (basiliximab n=1; placebo n=2) occurred within the 380-day 
cut-off period. One post-transplantation lymphoproliferative disorder was 
recorded in each group.
INTERPRETATION: Prophylaxis with 40 mg basiliximab reduces the incidence of 
acute rejection episodes significantly, with no clinically relevant safety or 
tolerability concerns.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(97)09278-7
PMID: 9652559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]