---
reference_id: PMID:30510080
title: "Ravulizumab (ALXN1210) vs eculizumab in adult patients with PNH naive to complement inhibitors: the 301 study."
authors:
- Lee JW
- Sicre de Fontbrune F
- Wong Lee Lee L
- Pessoa V
- Gualandro S
- Füreder W
- Ptushkin V
- Rottinghaus ST
- Volles L
- Shafner L
- Aguzzi R
- Pradhan R
- Schrezenmeier H
- Hill A
journal: Blood
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1182/blood-2018-09-876136
keywords:
- Adult
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/therapeutic use"
- Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/therapeutic use
- Complement Inactivating Agents/therapeutic use
- "Drug Resistance, Neoplasm/drug effects"
- Female
- Follow-Up Studies
- "Hemoglobinuria, Paroxysmal/drug therapy, immunology, pathology"
- Hemolysis/drug effects
- Humans
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Prognosis
- Salvage Therapy
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Ravulizumab (ALXN1210) vs eculizumab in adult patients with PNH naive to complement inhibitors: the 301 study.
**Authors:** Lee JW, Sicre de Fontbrune F, Wong Lee Lee L, Pessoa V, Gualandro S, Füreder W, Ptushkin V, Rottinghaus ST, Volles L, Shafner L, Aguzzi R, Pradhan R, Schrezenmeier H, Hill A
**Journal:** Blood (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1182/blood-2018-09-876136](https://doi.org/10.1182/blood-2018-09-876136)

## Content

1. Blood. 2019 Feb 7;133(6):530-539. doi: 10.1182/blood-2018-09-876136. Epub 2018
 Dec 3.

Ravulizumab (ALXN1210) vs eculizumab in adult patients with PNH naive to 
complement inhibitors: the 301 study.

Lee JW(1), Sicre de Fontbrune F(2), Wong Lee Lee L(3), Pessoa V(4), Gualandro 
S(5), Füreder W(6), Ptushkin V(7), Rottinghaus ST(8), Volles L(8), Shafner L(8), 
Aguzzi R(8), Pradhan R(8), Schrezenmeier H(9)(10), Hill A(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Hematology Transplant Unit, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.
(3)Hematology Unit, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, Malaysia.
(4)Hematology, Hemorio, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(5)Department of Haematology, University of São Paulo Medical School, São Paulo, 
Brazil.
(6)Division of Hematology & Hemostaseology, Department of Internal Medicine I, 
Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(7)Outpatient Department for Hematology, Oncology and Chemotherapy, S. P. Botkin 
Hospital, Moscow, Russia.
(8)Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc, Boston, MA.
(9)Institute of Transfusion Medicine, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(10)Institute for Clinical Transfusion Medicine and Immunogenetics, German Red 
Cross Blood Transfusion Service Baden-Württemberg-Hessen and University Hospital 
Ulm, Ulm, Germany; and.
(11)Department of Haematology, Leeds Teaching Hospitals, Leeds, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Blood. 2019 Feb 7;133(6):503-504. doi: 10.1182/blood-2018-12-891499.

Ravulizumab (ALXN1210), a new complement C5 inhibitor, provides immediate, 
complete, and sustained C5 inhibition. This phase 3, open-label study assessed 
the noninferiority of ravulizumab to eculizumab in complement inhibitor-naive 
adults with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH). Patients with lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH) ≥1.5 times the upper limit of normal and at least 1 PNH 
symptom were randomized 1:1 to receive ravulizumab or eculizumab for 183 days (N 
= 246). Coprimary efficacy end points were proportion of patients remaining 
transfusion-free and LDH normalization. Secondary end points were percent change 
from baseline in LDH, change from baseline in Functional Assessment of Chronic 
Illness Therapy (FACIT)-Fatigue score, proportion of patients with breakthrough 
hemolysis, stabilized hemoglobin, and change in serum free C5. Ravulizumab was 
noninferior to eculizumab for both coprimary and all key secondary end points 
(Pinf < .0001): transfusion avoidance (73.6% vs 66.1%; difference of 6.8% [95% 
confidence interval (CI), -4.66, 18.14]), LDH normalization (53.6% vs 49.4%; 
odds ratio, 1.19 [0.80, 1.77]), percent reduction in LDH (-76.8% vs -76.0%; 
difference [95% CI], -0.83% [-5.21, 3.56]), change in FACIT-Fatigue score (7.07 
vs 6.40; difference [95% CI], 0.67 [-1.21, 2.55]), breakthrough hemolysis (4.0% 
vs 10.7%; difference [95% CI], -6.7% [-14.21, 0.18]), and stabilized hemoglobin 
(68.0% vs 64.5%; difference [95% CI], 2.9 [-8.80, 14.64]). The safety and 
tolerability of ravulizumab and eculizumab were similar; no meningococcal 
infections occurred. In conclusion, ravulizumab given every 8 weeks achieved 
noninferiority compared with eculizumab given every 2 weeks for all efficacy end 
points, with a similar safety profile. This trial was registered at 
www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT02946463.

© 2019 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2018-09-876136
PMCID: PMC6367644
PMID: 30510080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest disclosure: J.W.L. has 
received honoraria, consulting fees, and research support (to Seoul St. Mary’s 
Hospital) from Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. F.S.d.F. has received honoraria and 
research support (to St. Louis Hospital) from Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. V. 
Pessoa and S.G. have received research support from Alexion Pharmaceuticals, 
Inc. W.F. has received honoraria from Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc, and 
Novartis. V. Ptushkin has received honoraria from Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
S.T.R., L.V., L.S., R.A., and R.P. are employees and stockholders of Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. H.S. has received honoraria and research support (all to 
University of Ulm) from Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. A.H. has received 
honoraria and consulting fees from Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. L.W.L.L. 
declares no competing financial interests.