---
reference_id: PMID:28057360
title: "Efficacy and safety of guselkumab, an anti-interleukin-23 monoclonal antibody, compared with adalimumab for the continuous treatment of patients with moderate to severe psoriasis: Results from the phase III, double-blinded, placebo- and active comparator-controlled VOYAGE 1 trial."
authors:
- Blauvelt A
- Papp KA
- Griffiths CE
- Randazzo B
- Wasfi Y
- Shen YK
- Li S
- Kimball AB
journal: J Am Acad Dermatol
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2016.11.041
keywords:
- "Adalimumab/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Adult
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized"
- "Dermatologic Agents/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Double-Blind Method
- Female
- Humans
- "Interleukin-23/antagonists & inhibitors"
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Placebos
- Psoriasis/drug therapy
- Quality of Life
- Severity of Illness Index
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Efficacy and safety of guselkumab, an anti-interleukin-23 monoclonal antibody, compared with adalimumab for the continuous treatment of patients with moderate to severe psoriasis: Results from the phase III, double-blinded, placebo- and active comparator-controlled VOYAGE 1 trial.
**Authors:** Blauvelt A, Papp KA, Griffiths CE, Randazzo B, Wasfi Y, Shen YK, Li S, Kimball AB
**Journal:** J Am Acad Dermatol (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jaad.2016.11.041](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaad.2016.11.041)

## Content

1. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2017 Mar;76(3):405-417. doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2016.11.041. 
Epub 2017 Jan 2.

Efficacy and safety of guselkumab, an anti-interleukin-23 monoclonal antibody, 
compared with adalimumab for the continuous treatment of patients with moderate 
to severe psoriasis: Results from the phase III, double-blinded, placebo- and 
active comparator-controlled VOYAGE 1 trial.

Blauvelt A(1), Papp KA(2), Griffiths CE(3), Randazzo B(4), Wasfi Y(5), Shen 
YK(5), Li S(5), Kimball AB(6).

Author information:
(1)Oregon Medical Research Center, Portland, Oregon. Electronic address: 
ablauvelt@oregonmedicalresearch.com.
(2)K. Papp Clinical Research and Probity Research Inc, Waterloo, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Dermatology Center, Salford Royal Hospital, University of Manchester, 
Manchester Academic Health Science Center, Manchester, United Kingdom.
(4)Janssen Research & Development LLC, Spring House, Pennsylvania; Department of 
Dermatology, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.
(5)Janssen Research & Development LLC, Spring House, Pennsylvania.
(6)Department of Dermatology, Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess 
Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Guselkumab, an interleukin-23 blocker, was superior to adalimumab in 
treating moderate to severe psoriasis in a phase II trial.
OBJECTIVES: We sought to compare efficacy and safety of guselkumab with 
adalimumab and placebo in patients with psoriasis treated for 1 year.
METHODS: Patients were randomized to guselkumab 100 mg (weeks 0 and 4, then 
every 8 weeks; n = 329); placebo→guselkumab (weeks 0, 4, and 12 then guselkumab 
at weeks 16 and 20, then every 8 weeks; n = 174); or adalimumab (80 mg week 0, 
40 mg week 1, then 40 mg every 2 weeks through week 47; n = 334). 
Physician-reported outcomes (Investigator Global Assessment, Psoriasis Area and 
Severity Index [PASI]), patient-reported outcomes (Dermatology Life Quality 
Index, Psoriasis Symptoms and Signs Diary), and safety were evaluated through 
week 48.
RESULTS: Guselkumab was superior (P < .001) to placebo at week 16 (85.1% vs 6.9% 
[Investigator Global Assessment score of 0/1 (cleared/minimal)] and 73.3% vs 
2.9% [90% or greater improvement in PASI score from baseline (PASI 90)]). 
Guselkumab was also superior (P < .001) to adalimumab for Investigator Global 
Assessment 0/1 and PASI 90 at week 16 (85.1% vs 65.9% and 73.3% vs 49.7%), week 
24 (84.2% vs 61.7% and 80.2% vs 53.0%), and week 48 (80.5% vs 55.4% and 76.3% vs 
47.9%). Furthermore, guselkumab significantly improved patient-reported outcomes 
through week 48. Adverse event rates were comparable between treatments.
LIMITATIONS: Analyses were limited to 48 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS: Guselkumab demonstrated superior efficacy compared with adalimumab 
and was well tolerated in patients with psoriasis through 1 year.

Copyright © 2016 American Academy of Dermatology, Inc. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2016.11.041
PMID: 28057360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]