---
reference_id: PMID:33480963
title: "Efficacy of Margetuximab vs Trastuzumab in Patients With Pretreated ERBB2-Positive Advanced Breast Cancer: A Phase 3 Randomized Clinical Trial."
authors:
- Rugo HS
- Im SA
- Cardoso F
- Cortés J
- Curigliano G
- Musolino A
- Pegram MD
- Wright GS
- Saura C
- Escrivá-de-Romaní S
- De Laurentiis M
- Levy C
- Brown-Glaberman U
- Ferrero JM
- de Boer M
- Kim SB
- Petráková K
- Yardley DA
- Freedman O
- Jakobsen EH
- Kaufman B
- Yerushalmi R
- Fasching PA
- Nordstrom JL
- Bonvini E
- Koenig S
- Edlich S
- Hong S
- Rock EP
- Gradishar WJ
- SOPHIA Study Group
journal: JAMA Oncol
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2020.7932
keywords:
- Ado-Trastuzumab Emtansine
- Adult
- Aged
- "Aged, 80 and over"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols
- Breast Neoplasms/drug therapy
- Female
- Humans
- Middle Aged
- Erb-b2 Receptor Tyrosine Kinases/analysis
- "Trastuzumab/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
content_type: full_text_xml
---

# Efficacy of Margetuximab vs Trastuzumab in Patients With Pretreated ERBB2-Positive Advanced Breast Cancer: A Phase 3 Randomized Clinical Trial.
**Authors:** Rugo HS, Im SA, Cardoso F, Cortés J, Curigliano G, Musolino A, Pegram MD, Wright GS, Saura C, Escrivá-de-Romaní S, De Laurentiis M, Levy C, Brown-Glaberman U, Ferrero JM, de Boer M, Kim SB, Petráková K, Yardley DA, Freedman O, Jakobsen EH, Kaufman B, Yerushalmi R, Fasching PA, Nordstrom JL, Bonvini E, Koenig S, Edlich S, Hong S, Rock EP, Gradishar WJ, SOPHIA Study Group
**Journal:** JAMA Oncol (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1001/jamaoncol.2020.7932](https://doi.org/10.1001/jamaoncol.2020.7932)

## Content

1. JAMA Oncol. 2021 Apr 1;7(4):573-584. doi: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2020.7932.

Efficacy of Margetuximab vs Trastuzumab in Patients With Pretreated 
ERBB2-Positive Advanced Breast Cancer: A Phase 3 Randomized Clinical Trial.

Rugo HS(1), Im SA(2), Cardoso F(3), Cortés J(4)(5), Curigliano G(6), Musolino 
A(7), Pegram MD(8), Wright GS(9), Saura C(10), Escrivá-de-Romaní S(10), De 
Laurentiis M(11), Levy C(12), Brown-Glaberman U(13), Ferrero JM(14), de Boer 
M(15), Kim SB(16), Petráková K(17), Yardley DA(18), Freedman O(19), Jakobsen 
EH(20), Kaufman B(21), Yerushalmi R(22), Fasching PA(23), Nordstrom JL(24), 
Bonvini E(24), Koenig S(24), Edlich S(24), Hong S(24), Rock EP(24), Gradishar 
WJ(25); SOPHIA Study Group.

Author information:
(1)University of California San Francisco Helen Diller Family Comprehensive 
Cancer Center.
(2)Seoul National University Hospital, Cancer Research Institute, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Champalimaud Clinical Center/Champalimaud Foundation, Breast Unit, Lisbon, 
Portugal.
(4)IOB Institute of Oncology, Quironsalud Group, Madrid and Barcelona, Spain.
(5)Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology (VHIO), Barcelona, Spain.
(6)European Institute of Oncology, IRCCS, Division of Early Drug Development, 
University of Milano, Milan, Italy.
(7)Department of Medicine and Surgery, University of Parma, Medical Oncology and 
Breast Unit, University Hospital of Parma, Parma, Italy.
(8)Stanford Comprehensive Cancer Institute, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, California.
(9)Florida Cancer Specialists & Research Institute, New Port Richey.
(10)Vall d'Hebron University Hospital and Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology 
(VHIO), Medical Oncology Service, Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Department of Breast and Thoracic Oncology, Istituto Nazionale Tumori 
"Fondazione Pascale", Naples, Italy.
(12)Centre François Baclesse, Institut Normand du Sein, Caen, France.
(13)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of New Mexico Comprehensive 
Cancer Center, Albuquerque.
(14)Centre Antoine Lacassagne, Department of Medical Oncology, University Côte 
d'Azur, Nice, France.
(15)Maastricht University Medical Center, Division of Medical Oncology, 
Department of Internal Medicine, GROW-School of Oncology and Developmental 
Biology, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(16)Department of Oncology, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(17)Department of Comprehensive Cancer Care, Masaryk Memorial Cancer Institute, 
Brno, Czech Republic.
(18)Sarah Cannon Research Institute, Tennessee Oncology PLLC, Nashville.
(19)RS McLaughlin Durham Regional Cancer Centre, Lakeridge Health, Oshawa, 
Ontario, Canada.
(20)Department of Oncology, Vejle Hospital, Vejle, Denmark.
(21)Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Breast Oncology Institute, Ramat Gan, Israel.
(22)Davidoff Cancer Center, Rabin Medical Center, Beilinson Hospital, Petah 
Tikva, Israel.
(23)Erlangen University Hospital, Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, 
Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-EMN, Department of Gynecology and 
Obstetrics, Friedrich Alexander University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, 
Germany.
(24)MacroGenics, Inc, Rockville, Maryland.
(25)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois.

IMPORTANCE: ERRB2 (formerly HER2)-positive advanced breast cancer (ABC) remains 
typically incurable with optimal treatment undefined in later lines of therapy. 
The chimeric antibody margetuximab shares ERBB2 specificity with trastuzumab but 
incorporates an engineered Fc region to increase immune activation.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the clinical efficacy of margetuximab vs trastuzumab, each 
with chemotherapy, in patients with pretreated ERBB2-positive ABC.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: The SOPHIA phase 3 randomized open-label 
trial of margetuximab plus chemotherapy vs trastuzumab plus chemotherapy 
enrolled 536 patients from August 26, 2015, to October 10, 2018, at 166 sites in 
17 countries. Eligible patients had disease progression on 2 or more prior 
anti-ERBB2 therapies and 1 to 3 lines of therapy for metastatic disease. Data 
were analyzed from February 2019 to October 2019.
INTERVENTIONS: Investigators selected chemotherapy before 1:1 randomization to 
margetuximab, 15 mg/kg, or trastuzumab, 6 mg/kg (loading dose, 8 mg/kg), each in 
3-week cycles. Stratification factors were metastatic sites (≤2, >2), lines of 
therapy (≤2, >2), and chemotherapy choice.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Sequential primary end points were progression-free 
survival (PFS) by central blinded analysis and overall survival (OS). All α was 
allocated to PFS, followed by OS. Secondary end points were 
investigator-assessed PFS and objective response rate by central blinded 
analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 536 patients were randomized to receive margetuximab 
(n = 266) or trastuzumab (n = 270). The median age was 56 (27-86) years; 266 
(100%) women were in the margetuximab group, while 267 (98.9%) women were in the 
trastuzumab group. Groups were balanced. All but 1 patient had received prior 
pertuzumab, and 489 (91.2%) had received prior ado-trastuzumab emtansine. 
Margetuximab improved primary PFS over trastuzumab with 24% relative risk 
reduction (hazard ratio [HR], 0.76; 95% CI, 0.59-0.98; P = .03; median, 5.8 [95% 
CI, 5.5-7.0] months vs 4.9 [95% CI, 4.2-5.6] months; October 10, 2018). After 
the second planned interim analysis of 270 deaths, median OS was 21.6 months 
with margetuximab vs 19.8 months with trastuzumab (HR, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.69-1.13; 
P = .33; September 10, 2019), and investigator-assessed PFS showed 29% relative 
risk reduction favoring margetuximab (HR, 0.71; 95% CI, 0.58-0.86; P < .001; 
median, 5.7 vs 4.4 months; September 10, 2019). Margetuximab improved objective 
response rate over trastuzumab: 22% vs 16% (P = .06; October 10, 2018), and 25% 
vs 14% (P < .001; September 10, 2019). Incidence of infusion-related reactions, 
mostly in cycle 1, was higher with margetuximab (35 [13.3%] vs 9 [3.4%]); 
otherwise, safety was comparable.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: In this phase 3 randomized clinical trial, 
margetuximab plus chemotherapy had acceptable safety and a statistically 
significant improvement in PFS compared with trastuzumab plus chemotherapy in 
ERBB2-positive ABC after progression on 2 or more prior anti-ERBB2 therapies. 
Final OS analysis is expected in 2021.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02492711.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoncol.2020.7932
PMCID: PMC7823434
PMID: 33480963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Rugo 
reported receiving grants from MacroGenics during the conduct of the study; and 
grants from Roche, Pfizer, Novartis, Lilly, Merck, Seattle Genetics, Odonate 
Therapeutics, Eisai, Sermonix Pharmaceuticals, Immunomedics, and Daiichi Sankyo 
and personal fees from Puma and Samsung outside the submitted work. Dr Im 
reported receiving grants from Daewoong Pharmaceutical; grants and personal fees 
from AstraZeneca, Pfizer, and Roche; and personal fees from Amgen, Eisai, Hanmi 
Pharmaceutical, Novartis, Lilly, and Merck Sharp & Dohme outside the submitted 
work. Dr Cardoso reported receiving personal fees from MacroGenics during the 
conduct of the study; and personal fees from Amgen, Astellas/Medivation, 
AstraZeneca, Celgene, Daiichi Sankyo, Eisai, GE Oncology, Genentech, 
GlaxoSmithKline, MacroGenics, Medscape, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Merus BV, Mylan, 
Mundipharma, Novartis, Pfizer, Pierre Fabre, prIME Oncology, Roche, Sanofi, 
Samsung Bioepis, Seattle Genetics, and Teva outside the submitted work. Dr 
Cortés reported receiving personal fees from Roche, Celgene, AstraZeneca, 
Cellestia, Biothera Pharmaceuticals, Merus, Seattle Genetics, Daiichi Sankyo, 
Erytech Pharma, Athenex, Polyphor, Lilly, Servier, Merck Sharp & Dohme, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Leuko, Bioasis Technologies, Clovis Oncology, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Novartis, Eisai, Pfizer, and Samsung Bioepis; honoraria from Samsung 
Bioepis, Pfizer, Eisai, Novartis, Roche, Celgene, Daiichi Sankyo, Lilly, Merck 
Sharp & Dohme; serving on advisory boards for Boehringer Ingelheim, Clovis 
Oncology, Bioasis, Leuko, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Servier, Lilly, 
Polyphor, Athenex, Erytech, Daiichi Sankyo, Seattle Genetics, Merus, Biothera, 
Cellestia, AstraZeneca, Celgene, and Roche; and owning stock from MedSIR outside 
the submitted work; and travel, accommodation, and expenses from Roche, 
Novartis, Eisai, Pfizer, and Daiichi Sankyo. Dr Curigliano reported receiving 
travel grants from Roche; serving on advisory boards for Pfizer, Seattle 
Genetics, Novartis, AstraZeneca, Lilly, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Daichi Sankyo, 
Genomic Health, and Ellipsis; and serving as a steering committee member for 
Bristol Myers Squibb outside the submitted work. Dr Musolino reported receiving 
personal fees from MacroGenics during the conduct of the study; and grants and 
personal fees from Roche and Eisai and personal fees from Novartis and Lilly 
outside the submitted work. Dr Pegram reported receiving personal fees from 
MacroGenics and Roche during the conduct of the study. Dr Wright reported 
receiving payment to Sarah Cannon Research Institute for conduct of clinical 
trial from MacroGenics during the conduct of the study; and payment to Sarah 
Cannon Research Institute for conduct of clinical trial from AbbVie, Incyte, 
Genentech, Novartis, Lilly, Janssen, Astellas, Celgene, AstraZeneca, Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Boehringer Ingelheim, G1 Therapeutics, Medivation, Merrimack, 
Pfizer, Tesaro, and Odonate Therapeutics outside the submitted work. Dr Saura 
reported receiving personal fees from AstraZeneca, Celgene, Daiichi Sankyo, 
Eisai, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, Genomic Health, Merck, Sharp and Dohme España 
SA, Novartis, Odonate Therapeutics, Pfizer, Philips HealthWork, Pierre Fabre, 
prIME Oncology, Puma, Synthon, and Sanofi Aventis outside the submitted work. Dr 
Escrivá-de-Romaní reported receiving grants from MacroGenics during the conduct 
of the study; and grants from Synthon and Zymeworks; grants, personal fees, and 
nonfinancial support from Roche; personal fees and nonfinancial support from 
Pierre Fabre; personal fees from Eisai, Kyowa Kirin, and Esteve; and 
nonfinancial support from Daiichi Sankyo outside the submitted work. Dr De 
Laurentiis reported receiving grants from MacroGenics during the conduct of the 
study; and grants from Daiichi Sankyo; grants and personal fees from Roche, 
Novartis, Pfizer, Eli Lilly, Pierre Fabre, and AstraZeneca; personal fees from 
Celgene, Eisai, Genomic Health, and Amgen outside the submitted work. Dr 
Brown-Glaberman reported receiving personal fees from Novartis, Eisai, 
Biotheranostics, and Seattle Genetics outside the submitted work. Dr de Boer 
reported receiving grants from Parexel during the conduct of the study; and 
grants from Novartis, Pfizer, and Eli Lilly and grants and personal fees from 
Roche outside the submitted work. Dr Kim reported participation as a consultant 
in advisory boards for Novartis, AstraZeneca, Lilly, Enzychem Lifesciences, Dae 
Hwa Pharmaceutical Co Ltd, ISU Abxis, and Daiichi Sankyo and receiving research 
funding (paid to institution) from Novartis, Sanofi-Aventis, and DongKook 
Pharmaceutical Co Ltd outside the submitted work. Dr Petráková reported 
receiving personal fees from Novartis, Roche, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Pfizer 
outside the submitted work. Dr Yardley reported a consultant/advisory role (paid 
to institution) for Bristol Myers Squibb, Genentech/Roche, Eisai, 
Biotheranostics, Daiichi Sankyo/Lilly, Celgene, Novartis, NanoString Technology, 
and MacroGenics; research funding (paid to institution) from Daiichi Sankyo, 
Clovis Oncology, AstraZeneca, Genentech/Roche, InventisBio, Syndax, Lilly, 
MedImmune, Pfizer, Eisai, Novartis, Medivation, Tesaro, Immunomedics, AbbVie, 
Merck, and Oncothyreon; and participation in speakers bureaus and 
travel/accommodations/expenses for Novartis and Genentech/Roche outside the 
submitted work. Dr Jakobsen reported receiving financial support from Cascadian 
Therapeutics during the conduct of the study; and grants from Cascadian 
Therapeutics and grants and personal fees from Roche, Novartis, Lilly, and 
Pfizer outside the submitted work. Dr Kaufman reported receiving personal fees 
from Pfizer and AstraZeneca outside the submitted work. Dr Fasching reported 
receiving personal fees from MacroGenics during the conduct of the study; and 
grants from Cepheid and personal fees from Novartis, Pfizer, Daiichi Sankyo, 
AstraZeneca, Eisai, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lilly, Pierre Fabre, and Seattle 
Genetics outside the submitted work. Dr Bonvini reported receiving salary, 
stocks, and stock options from MacroGenics as compensation as a condition of 
employment. Dr Koenig is an employee of MacroGenics and reported holding a 
patent to US20180298100 pending and a patent to US20160257761 pending. Drs 
Nordstrom, Hong, and Rock and Mr Edlich are or were employees of MacroGenics. No 
other disclosures were reported.

Addition of ERBB2 (formerly HER2)–targeting monoclonal antibodies to chemotherapy
improves progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients with
ERBB2-positive advanced breast cancer (ABC).1,2,3,4
Generally, patients with ERBB2-positive metastatic breast cancer (BC) receive multiple lines
of therapy, yet with rare exceptions, ERBB2-positive metastatic BC remains
incurable.5,6

Margetuximab is a chimeric, Fc-engineered, immune-activating anti-ERBB2 immunoglobulin G1
(IgG1) monoclonal antibody that shares epitope specificity and Fc-independent
antiproliferative effects with trastuzumab. Fc engineering of margetuximab alters 5 amino
acids from wild-type IgG1 to increase affinity for activating Fcγ receptor (FcγR)
CD16A (FcγRIIIa) and to decrease affinity for inhibitory FcγR CD32B
(FcγRIIb).6,7 These effects are proposed to increase
activation of innate and adaptive anti-ERBB2 immune responses, relative to trastuzumab.

Three FcγRs (CD16A, CD32A, and CD32B) expressed on immune effector cells regulate
cellular activation by antibodies.8 CD16A can trigger antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) by
innate immune cells.9,10 Two CD16A polymorphisms at amino acid
158 bind IgG1 with higher (valine [V]) or lower (phenylalanine [F]) affinity.11 Clinical benefit of therapeutic
antibodies, including trastuzumab,11,12,13,14,15 appears greater for patients with the
high-affinity VV genotype compared with the lower-affinity FV and FF genotypes (CD16A-158F
carriers), although not all studies observed this effect.16,17
Notably, most people (approximately 85%) are CD16A-158F allele carriers.11,12 A key feature of margetuximab’s engineered Fc domain is increased
binding to all CD16A-158 V/F variants, relative to wild-type IgG1.

In a phase 1 study18 of
margetuximab monotherapy in 66 patients with pretreated ERBB2-positive carcinomas, 4 of 24
(17%) evaluable patients with ABC had a confirmed partial response. Three patients continued
margetuximab monotherapy for 4 or more years.19 Here we report initial results of a phase 3 randomized clinical trial
of margetuximab vs trastuzumab, each combined with single-agent chemotherapy, in pretreated
patients with ERBB2-positive ABC. In addition, we present an exploratory analysis of PFS and
OS by FcγR genotype.

This international, randomized, open-label, phase 3 study (SOPHIA; MacroGenics study
protocol No. CP-MGAH22-04) enrolled patients at 166 centers in 17 countries. Eligible
patients were aged 18 years or older with confirmed ERBB2-positive ABC by local or
optional central testing of the most recent biopsy, following 2013 American Society of
Clinical Oncology testing recommendations.20 Patients must have had progressive disease after 2 or more lines of
prior ERBB2-targeted therapy, including pertuzumab, and 1 to 3 lines of nonhormonal
metastatic BC therapy. Prior brain metastases were allowed if treated and stable. Trial
conduct was in accordance with Good Clinical Practice guidelines and the Declaration of
Helsinki. An independent ethics committee approved the protocol at each participating
site. All patients provided written informed consent. The trial protocol and statistical
analysis plan are available online (Supplement 1). This study followed the Consolidated
Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) reporting guideline.

Investigators chose 1 of 4 chemotherapies (capecitabine, eribulin, gemcitabine, or
vinorelbine) for each eligible patient before 1:1 randomization by a permuted-blocks
procedure. Stratification factors were metastatic sites (≤2, >2), lines of
therapy for metastatic disease (≤2, >2), and chemotherapy choice. The trial was
open label for patients and investigators but sponsor blinded with central blinded
analysis (CBA) of PFS to prevent observer bias.

Margetuximab was given intravenously at 15 mg/kg over 120 minutes on day 1 of each 21-day
cycle. Trastuzumab was given intravenously at 6 mg/kg (over 30-90 minutes) on day 1 of
each 21-day cycle after a loading dose of 8 mg/kg (over 90 minutes). Capecitabine was
given orally at 1000 mg/m2 twice daily for 14 days followed by 7 days off.
Eribulin, gemcitabine, and vinorelbine were given intravenously before antibody infusion
at 1.4 mg/m2, 1000 mg/m2, and 25 to 30 mg/m2,
respectively, on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Margetuximab premedication was recommended,
if not already given with chemotherapy: standard doses of acetaminophen or ibuprofen,
diphenhydramine, ranitidine, and dexamethasone, or equivalents. Disease assessment was
performed at baseline, every 6 weeks for the first 24 weeks of therapy, and then every 12
weeks until disease progression, adverse event (AE) necessitating discontinuation, consent
withdrawal, or death. Safety was assessed at each visit, including AEs from study therapy
initiation through the end-of-treatment visit, or 28 days after last administration of the
study drug. Investigators assessed both event severity, using Common Terminology Criteria
for Adverse Events, version 4.03, and causality. Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF)
was monitored every 6 weeks for 24 weeks and then every 12 weeks thereafter. Optional
CD16A, CD32A, and CD32B genotyping was performed by polymerase chain reaction
amplification of blood DNA, followed by DNA sequencing.

Primary end points were PFS by CBA, with the α entirely allocated to PFS, and OS.
The PFS was defined as time from randomization to disease progression or death from any
cause. Secondary end points included investigator-assessed PFS and CBA-assessed objective
response rate (ORR). The PFS and ORR were assessed according to Response Evaluation
Criteria in Solid Tumors, version 1.1. Additional end points included safety, clinical
benefit rate (CBR; ORR plus stable disease lasting at least 6 months),
investigator-assessed ORR, response duration, antidrug antibodies, and exploratory
evaluation of FcγR allelic variation on efficacy.

For 90% power to detect median PFS improvement from 4 to 6 months (hazard ratio [HR],
0.67) at a 2-sided .05 significance level, 257 PFS events were needed. Primary PFS by CBA
occurred after 257 PFS events or all patients were randomized, whichever occurred last.
The OS was time from randomization to death from any cause and was to be assessed only if
PFS was positive. For 80% power to detect a median OS improvement from 12 to 16 months
(HR, 0.75) at a 2-sided .05 significance level, 385 OS events were needed. Three OS
analyses were planned: first interim coincident with primary PFS analysis, second interim
after 270 deaths, and final analysis after 385 events. All α was allocated to PFS,
tested at a 2-sided .05 significance level. If PFS passed the test, then OS would be
tested at the same significance level of 2-sided .05. The O’Brien-Fleming type
Lan-DeMets α-spending function was applied for α allocation to each interim OS
analysis.

The PFS and OS were assessed in the randomized, intention-to-treat population. Patients
were censored at the last tumor assessment date for PFS and at the last time known to be
alive for OS. The ORR and CBR were assessed in randomized patients with baseline
measurable disease (response-evaluable population). For ORR analysis, if a patient’s
response was missing, the patient was classified as not available. Safety and antidrug
antibodies were assessed in randomized patients after any study treatment (safety
population).

Kaplan-Meier methods were used to estimate median PFS, OS, and 95% CIs for each treatment
group. The stratified log-rank test was used to compare time-to-event end points between
groups. A stratified Cox proportional hazards model, with treatment as the only covariate,
was used to estimate PFS and OS HRs and 95% CIs.

Prespecified PFS and OS subgroup analyses included chemotherapy choice, metastatic sites,
lines of prior metastatic therapy, prior ado-trastuzumab emtansine use, hormone receptor
status, ERBB2 status, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, region, age,
and race, as well as FCGR3A (FcγRIIIa/CD16A),
FCGR2A (FcγRIIa/CD32A), and FCGR2B
(FcγRIIb/CD32B) genotype. The HRs and 95% CIs for PFS in each subgroup were assessed
using an unstratified Cox proportional hazards model with treatment as the only
covariate.

If the primary PFS and OS were each positive, then secondary PFS and ORR end points were
to be tested using the Hochberg step-up procedure for multiplicity adjustment.
Investigator-assessed PFS was analyzed using the same methods as the primary PFS end
point. The ORR was compared between groups by the stratified Mantel-Haenszel test. Data
were analyzed from February 2019 to October 2019. Analyses were performed using SAS,
version 9.4 (SAS Institute).

From July 2015 through October 2018, a total of 536 patients were enrolled at 166 centers
in 17 countries and randomized to receive margetuximab plus chemotherapy (margetuximab
group, n = 266) or trastuzumab plus chemotherapy (trastuzumab group,
n = 270; Figure 1). The median
age was 56 (27-86) years (55.0 [29-83] years for patients in the margetuximab group and
56.0 [27-86] years in the trastuzumab group); 266 (100%) women were in the margetuximab
group, while 267 (98.9%) women were in the trastuzumab group. Investigator-selected
chemotherapy choices were vinorelbine (n = 191, 35.6%), capecitabine
(n = 143, 26.7%), eribulin (n = 136, 25.4%), and gemcitabine
(n = 66, 12.3%). Patients received a median of 6 cycles of margetuximab vs 5
cycles of trastuzumab.

All randomized patients were included in the intention-to-treat population;
randomized patients who received at least 1 dose of study treatment were included in
the safety population; randomized patients with baseline measurable disease were
included in the RE population. AE indicates adverse event; PD, progressive disease;
RE, response evaluable; tx, treatment.

aA patient may have more than 1 reason for screening failure.

bAs of the October 10, 2018, cutoff.

cAs of the April 10, 2019, cutoff, 37 patients remained on margetuximab
therapy vs 20 on trastuzumab therapy.

dAs of the October 10, 2018, cutoff and the September 10, 2019,
cutoff.

eAs of the April 10, 2019, cutoff.

fAs of the September 10, 2019, cutoff, there were 266 margetuximab-treated
patients and 270 trastuzumab-treated patients in the RE population.

Baseline characteristics were balanced across groups (Table 1). All patients had received prior trastuzumab; all but
1 had received prior pertuzumab, and 489 (91.2%) had received prior ado-trastuzumab
emtansine. One-third of patients in both groups received 3 or more prior therapies for
metastatic BC (margetuximab, 92 of 266 [34.6%]; vs trastuzumab, 87 of 270 [32.2%]).

Abbreviations: ECOG, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group; ER, estrogen receptor; PR,
progesterone receptor.

Primary PFS analysis was triggered by last randomization (October 10, 2018), after 265
PFS events. On that date, 79 (30%) vs 58 (22%) patients remained on margetuximab vs
trastuzumab, respectively, including 13 (5%) and 5 (2%) remaining exclusively on
margetuximab vs trastuzumab. Margetuximab plus chemotherapy prolonged centrally assessed
PFS (HR, 0.76; 95% CI, 0.59-0.98; P = .03; median PFS, 5.8
[95% CI, 5.5-7.0] months vs 4.9 [95% CI, 4.2-5.6] months; Figure 2A), with a 24% PFS relative risk reduction over
trastuzumab plus chemotherapy, meeting the primary end point of the study. The test of
proportional hazards assumption indicated that the proportional hazards assumption was not
violated. Investigator-assessed PFS based on 337 events was also greater with margetuximab
than with trastuzumab (HR, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.56-0.87; P = .001;
median, 5.6 vs 4.2 months; Figure 2B), with
a 30% PFS relative risk reduction over trastuzumab. Coincident with the second interim OS
analysis, updated investigator-assessed PFS based on 430 PFS events showed increased
statistical significance in favor of margetuximab with a similar HR (HR, 0.71; 95% CI,
0.58-0.86; P < .001; median, 5.7 vs 4.4 months; Figure 2C).

A, Kaplan-Meier estimates of PFS in the intention-to-treat population by central
blinded analysis (CBA), based on the October 2018 cutoff. B, Kaplan-Meier estimates of
PFS in the intention-to-treat population by investigator assessment, based on the
October 2018 cutoff. C, Kaplan-Meier estimates of PFS in the intention-to-treat
population by investigator assessment, based on the September 2019 cutoff. The dashed
line indicates 50% (median PFS); plus signs, censored data. HR indicates hazard
ratio.

aPFS analysis was triggered by last randomization on October 10, 2018,
after 265 PFS events occurred.

bPFS analysis performed as of September 10, 2019, after 430 PFS events
occurred.

The OS analysis after 270 deaths (70% of 385 final required events) occurred on September
10, 2019, after 131 (49.2%) and 139 (51.5%) OS events in the margetuximab and trastuzumab
groups, respectively. Median OS was 21.6 months with margetuximab and 19.8 months with
trastuzumab (HR, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.69-1.13; P = .33; Figure 3). The stopping threshold was not
reached; final OS analysis will occur after 385 deaths (anticipated in 2021).

Kaplan-Meier estimates of OS in the intention-to-treat population, based on the
September 2019 cutoff. The dashed line indicates 50% (median OS); plus signs, censored
data. HR indicates hazard ratio.

aOS analysis performed as of September 10, 2019, data cutoff, after 270 of
385 (70%) events needed for final OS analysis had occurred.

Among 524 response-evaluable patients, margetuximab recipients had higher blinded ORR
(22% vs 16%; P = .06) and CBR (37% vs 25%;
P = .003) than trastuzumab recipients (eTable 1 in Supplement 2). These
rates were similar at the September 2019 cutoff when investigator-assessed ORR and CBR
were 25% vs 14% (P < .001) and 48% vs 36%
(P = .003), respectively (eTable 1 in Supplement 2). Median
response duration was similar between treatment groups: 6.1 vs 6.0 months (October 10,
2018, CBA) and 6.9 vs 7.0 months (September 10, 2019, investigator assessed).

Prespecified exploratory subgroup analyses of primary PFS (October 10, 2018, cutoff) and
second interim OS (September 10, 2019, cutoff) by CD16A genotype are shown in eFigures 1
and 2 in Supplement
2, respectively. Genotyping was available for 506 patients (94%). Study groups
were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium for all 3 FCGR genotypes (eTable 2 in
Supplement 2).
Baseline characteristics of patients assigned to margetuximab vs trastuzumab by FcγR
genotype are shown in eTable 3 in Supplement 2. The interim OS per treatment group by
CD16A genotype is shown in eFigure 3 in Supplement 2. Efficacy outcomes by CD32A and CD32B are
shown in eFigure 4 and eFigure 5 in Supplement 2.

As of April 10, 2019, which provided 6 additional months of safety follow-up after the
primary PFS analysis, the safety population included 264 margetuximab and 266 trastuzumab
recipients. Common AEs (≥20% of patients), regardless of causality, included
fatigue, nausea, diarrhea, and neutropenia in both groups (Table 2), as well as vomiting (margetuximab group) and anemia
(trastuzumab group). Grade 3 or greater AEs in at least 5% of patients included
neutropenia and anemia in both groups, as well as fatigue in the margetuximab group and
febrile neutropenia in the trastuzumab group. Discontinuations owing to AEs were similar
(margetuximab, 8 of 266 [3.0%]; trastuzumab, 7 of 270 [2.6%]; eTable 4 in Supplement 2). Adverse
events leading to death were reported in 5 patients (margetuximab, n = 3
[1.1%]; trastuzumab, n = 2 [0.8%]; eTable 4 in Supplement 2); none
were considered treatment related.

Abbreviations: ALT, alanine aminotransferase; AST, aspartate aminotransferase; PPE,
palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia; WBC, white blood cell.

All-grade adverse events with ≥10% incidence in either treatment group.

Grade ≥3 with an incidence of ≥2% in either treatment group.

Exact test P value for nonprespecified comparison of all-grade
fatigue between treatment groups (42.0% vs 35.3%):
P = .13. Exact test P value for
nonprespecified comparison of grade ≥3 fatigue between treatment groups (4.9%
vs 3.0%): P = .28.

Exact test P value for nonprespecified comparison of all-grade
vomiting between treatment groups (20.5% vs 14.3%):
P = .07.

Infusion-related reactions include hypersensitivity/anaphylactic/anaphylactoid
reactions.

Exact test P value for nonprespecified comparison of all-grade
infusion-related reaction between treatment groups (13.3% vs 3.4%):
P < .001.

Exact test P value for nonprespecified comparison of all-grade
mucosal inflammation between treatment groups (9.8% vs 3.0%):
P = .001.

Exact test P value for nonprespecified comparison of all-grade
neutropenia between treatment groups (28.4% vs 20.7%):
P = .04. Exact test P value for
nonprespecified comparison of grade ≥3 neutropenia between treatment groups
(19.7% vs 12.4%): P = .02.

Exact test P value for nonprespecified comparison of all grade
anemia between treatment groups (18.6% vs 23.3%):
P = .20.

Exact test P value for nonprespecified comparison of grade
≥3 febrile neutropenia between treatment groups (3.0% vs 4.9%):
P = .37.

Adverse events of special interest included infusion-related reactions (IRRs) and left
ventricular (LV) dysfunction. All-grade IRRs were more common with margetuximab than with
trastuzumab (35 [13.3%] vs 9 [3.4%], respectively; Table 2). Most IRRs were grade 1 or 2, occurred on cycle 1, day
1, and resolved within 24 hours. Grade 3 IRRs on cycle 1, day 1 were reported in 4 (1.5%)
margetuximab-treated patients. Of these 4 patients, 2 (0.8%) continued therapy for 5 or
more cycles and 2 (0.8%) discontinued owing to IRRs (eTable 4 in Supplement 2). No
trastuzumab recipients had grade 3 IRRs. Adverse events of LV dysfunction occurred in 7
patients (3%) in each treatment group (eTable 4 in Supplement 2). Grade 3 LV dysfunction AEs were observed
in 3 margetuximab recipients (1.1%) and 1 trastuzumab recipient (0.4%). Monitoring of LVEF
led to dose delay or discontinuation in 4 margetuximab-treated (1.5%) vs 6
trastuzumab-treated patients (2.3%). All LVEF reductions detected by monitoring were
asymptomatic. Reductions in LVEF were reversible for all patients with complete
follow-up.

The phase 3 SOPHIA trial compared margetuximab, a novel chimeric Fc-engineered anti-ERBB2
antibody, to trastuzumab, each with chemotherapy, in patients with pretreated ERBB2-positive
ABC. This randomized clinical trial was positive for its PFS primary end point. Margetuximab
plus chemotherapy led to an independently assessed PFS benefit vs trastuzumab plus
chemotherapy, with a 24% relative risk reduction. Investigator-assessed PFS complemented
primary blinded PFS with a 29% relative risk reduction. No conclusion can be drawn at this
time about OS based on the 2 OS interim analyses conducted after 40% and 70% of target OS
events (immature data); final analysis of the effect of margetuximab vs trastuzumab on
survival will occur after 385 deaths (anticipated in 2021).

Margetuximab plus chemotherapy had acceptable safety, comparable with control trastuzumab
plus chemotherapy. Although IRRs were increased with margetuximab, almost all occurred
during the first infusion only, and the observed margetuximab IRR rate aligns with that in
published literature on trastuzumab first exposure (16%).21 In a nonrandomized infusion safety substudy,
margetuximab was administered over 30 minutes from cycle 2 onward and appeared well
tolerated with no increase in IRR risk, supporting 30-minute margetuximab infusions after
cycle 1.22 There was no increase
in cardiac toxic effects with margetuximab compared with trastuzumab.

The SOPHIA study also tested the hypothesis that altering Fc–FcγR interactions
can drive clinical benefit. Trastuzumab triggers ADCC23 via activation of FcγRIIIa (CD16A).8 Associations between efficacy and CD16A
polymorphism in trastuzumab-treated patients with early and advanced BC suggest lower immune
activation in CD16A-158F allele carriers compared with VV homozygotes.10,11,12,14,24
Diminished clinical response to trastuzumab for these CD16A-158F carriers suggests these
patients may benefit from an antibody with enhanced Fc-dependent immune
activation.11,12,24
Margetuximab Fc engineering increases affinity for both CD16A allotypes, enhances ADCC
potency over trastuzumab with effector cells of all CD16A genotypes (FF, FV, VV), albeit
proportionally more for CD16A-158F carriers under certain conditions, and boosts activity
against ERBB2-positive BC xenografts in mice transgenic for human CD16A-158F.6,25 Exploratory PFS analysis by CD16A genotype suggested that presence of a
CD16A-158F allele may predict margetuximab benefit over trastuzumab. Early OS results showed
a similar pattern. Conversely, there was no margetuximab benefit in the smaller CD16A-158VV
group in this study of heavily pretreated patients. There is no clear biological explanation
for the observation that margetuximab provided no clinical benefit in CD16A-158VV
homozygotes compared with trastuzumab, although there was an imbalance in poor prognostic
features between the 2 groups.

Increasing evidence implicates adaptive immunity in the clinical activity of anti-ERBB2
monoclonal antibodies.26
ERBB2-specific T-cell and antibody responses were observed in 50% to 78% and 42% to 69%,
respectively, of trastuzumab-treated patients with ERBB2-positive BC.10,24,26,27,28,29,30 Correspondingly, increases in ERBB2-specific T-cell and antibody
responses were observed in 98% and 94%, respectively, of pretreated phase 1 study patients
receiving margetuximab monotherapy.31

This trial demonstrates a small but statistically significant PFS benefit of margetuximab
plus chemotherapy over trastuzumab plus chemotherapy in patients with ERBB2-positive ABC who
progressed after treatment with trastuzumab, pertuzumab, and ado-trastuzumab
emtansine.1,2,4,32 Alternatives for this patient
population include neratinib, tucatinib, and trastuzumab deruxtecan, which have emerged as
active regimens, albeit with different levels of effectiveness, and all with notable toxic
effects. Margetuximab may have a role for patients in this setting who are unable, or
unwilling, to tolerate toxic effects of these novel therapies.

Limitations of this trial include that the primary end point did not allocate α to
the CD16A analysis and that patients with active brain metastases were not included. An
ongoing neoadjuvant investigator-sponsored trial is comparing margetuximab vs trastuzumab
in patients with the low-affinity CD16A genotype (the MARGetuximab Or Trastuzumab trial,
known as MARGOT; NCT04425018).
Immune-mediated therapies, such as margetuximab, may be more effective in the earlier
disease setting where the immune system is relatively intact.

The chimeric antibody margetuximab shares ERBB2 specificity with trastuzumab but
incorporates an engineered Fc region to optimize immune activation. This phase 3 randomized
clinical trial demonstrates improvement in PFS of margetuximab in combination with
chemotherapy vs trastuzumab plus chemotherapy in patients with pretreated ERBB2-positive
ABC, which remains typically incurable.