---
reference_id: PMID:11920396
title: "Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with anakinra, a recombinant human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, in combination with methotrexate: results of a twenty-four-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial."
authors:
- Cohen S
- Hurd E
- Cush J
- Schiff M
- Weinblatt ME
- Moreland LW
- Kremer J
- Bear MB
- Rich WJ
- McCabe D
journal: Arthritis Rheum
year: '2002'
doi: 10.1002/art.10141
keywords:
- Antibodies/analysis
- "Antirheumatic Agents/administration & dosage, adverse effects, immunology, therapeutic use"
- "Arthritis, Rheumatoid/drug therapy, physiopathology"
- Blood Sedimentation
- "Dose-Response Relationship, Drug"
- Double-Blind Method
- "Drug Therapy, Combination"
- Female
- Humans
- Interleukin 1 Receptor Antagonist Protein
- Male
- Methotrexate/therapeutic use
- Middle Aged
- Recombinant Proteins/therapeutic use
- Safety
- Severity of Illness Index
- "Sialoglycoproteins/administration & dosage, adverse effects, immunology, therapeutic use"
- Treatment Outcome
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with anakinra, a recombinant human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, in combination with methotrexate: results of a twenty-four-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
**Authors:** Cohen S, Hurd E, Cush J, Schiff M, Weinblatt ME, Moreland LW, Kremer J, Bear MB, Rich WJ, McCabe D
**Journal:** Arthritis Rheum (2002)
**DOI:** [10.1002/art.10141](https://doi.org/10.1002/art.10141)

## Content

1. Arthritis Rheum. 2002 Mar;46(3):614-24. doi: 10.1002/art.10141.

Treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with anakinra, a recombinant human 
interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, in combination with methotrexate: results of 
a twenty-four-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trial.

Cohen S(1), Hurd E, Cush J, Schiff M, Weinblatt ME, Moreland LW, Kremer J, Bear 
MB, Rich WJ, McCabe D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, St. Paul Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 75235, 
USA. stanleycohen@radiantresearch.com

Comment in
    Arthritis Rheum. 2002 Mar;46(3):574-8. doi: 10.1002/art.10168.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of anakinra in combination with 
methotrexate (MTX) in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: Patients with moderate-to-severe active RA who were receiving MTX for 6 
consecutive months, with stable doses for > or = 3 months (those with disease 
duration of >6 months but <12 years) were randomized into 6 groups: placebo or 
0.04, 0.1, 0.4, 1.0, or 2.0 mg/kg of anakinra administered in a single, daily, 
subcutaneous injection. The primary efficacy end point was the proportion of 
subjects who met the American College of Rheumatology 20% improvement criteria 
(attained an ACR20 response) at week 12.
RESULTS: A total of 419 patients were randomized in the study. Patient 
demographics and disease status were similar in the 6 treatment groups. The 
ACR20 responses at week 12 in the 5 active treatment plus MTX groups 
demonstrated a statistically significant (P = 0.001) dose-response relationship 
compared with the ACR20 response in the placebo plus MTX group. The ACR20 
response rate in the anakinra 1.0-mg/kg (46%; P = 0.001) and 2.0-mg/kg (38%; P = 
0.007) dose groups was significantly greater than that in the placebo group 
(19%). The ACR20 responses at 24 weeks were consistent with those at 12 weeks. 
Similar improvements in anakinra-treated subjects were noted in individual ACR 
components, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, onset of ACR20 response, 
sustainability of ACR20 response, and magnitude of ACR response. Anakinra was 
safe and well tolerated. Injection site reaction was the most frequently noted 
adverse event, and this led to premature study withdrawal in 7% (1.0-mg/kg 
group) to 10% (2.0-mg/kg group) of patients receiving higher doses.
CONCLUSION: In patients with persistently active RA, the combination of anakinra 
and MTX was safe and well tolerated and provided significantly greater clinical 
benefit than MTX alone.

DOI: 10.1002/art.10141
PMID: 11920396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]