---
reference_id: PMID:9920948
title: "A trial of etanercept, a recombinant tumor necrosis factor receptor:Fc fusion protein, in patients with rheumatoid arthritis receiving methotrexate."
authors:
- Weinblatt ME
- Kremer JM
- Bankhurst AD
- Bulpitt KJ
- Fleischmann RM
- Fox RI
- Jackson CG
- Lange M
- Burge DJ
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '1999'
doi: 10.1056/NEJM199901283400401
keywords:
- Adult
- Aged
- "Antirheumatic Agents/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Arthritis, Rheumatoid/classification, drug therapy"
- Disability Evaluation
- Double-Blind Method
- "Drug Therapy, Combination"
- Etanercept
- Female
- Humans
- Immunoglobulin G/therapeutic use
- "Injections, Subcutaneous/adverse effects"
- Male
- Methotrexate/therapeutic use
- Middle Aged
- "Receptors, Tumor Necrosis Factor/therapeutic use"
- Treatment Outcome
content_type: abstract_only
---

# A trial of etanercept, a recombinant tumor necrosis factor receptor:Fc fusion protein, in patients with rheumatoid arthritis receiving methotrexate.
**Authors:** Weinblatt ME, Kremer JM, Bankhurst AD, Bulpitt KJ, Fleischmann RM, Fox RI, Jackson CG, Lange M, Burge DJ
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (1999)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJM199901283400401](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJM199901283400401)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 1999 Jan 28;340(4):253-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199901283400401.

A trial of etanercept, a recombinant tumor necrosis factor receptor:Fc fusion 
protein, in patients with rheumatoid arthritis receiving methotrexate.

Weinblatt ME(1), Kremer JM, Bankhurst AD, Bulpitt KJ, Fleischmann RM, Fox RI, 
Jackson CG, Lange M, Burge DJ.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Jan 28;340(4):310-2. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199901283400411.
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Jun 24;340(25):2000; author reply 2001. doi: 
10.1056/NEJM199906243402512.
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Jun 24;340(25):2000; author reply 2001.
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Jun 24;340(25):2000-1.

BACKGROUND: Patients treated with methotrexate for rheumatoid arthritis often 
improve but continue to have active disease. This study was undertaken to 
determine whether the addition of etanercept, a soluble tumor necrosis factor 
receptor (p75):Fc fusion protein (TNFR:Fc), to methotrexate therapy would 
provide additional benefit to patients who had persistent rheumatoid arthritis 
despite receiving methotrexate.
METHODS: In a 24-week, double-blind trial, we randomly assigned 89 patients with 
persistently active rheumatoid arthritis despite at least 6 months of 
methotrexate therapy at a stable dose of 15 to 25 mg per week (or as low as 10 
mg per week for patients unable to tolerate higher doses) to receive either 
etanercept (25 mg) or placebo subcutaneously twice weekly while continuing to 
receive methotrexate. The primary measure of clinical response was the American 
College of Rheumatology criteria for a 20 percent improvement in measures of 
disease activity (ACR 20) at 24 weeks.
RESULTS: The addition of etanercept to methotrexate therapy resulted in rapid 
and sustained improvement. At 24 weeks, 71 percent of the patients receiving 
etanercept plus methotrexate and 27 percent of those receiving placebo plus 
methotrexate met the ACR 20 criteria (P<0.001); 39 percent of the patients 
receiving etanercept plus methotrexate and 3 percent of those receiving placebo 
plus methotrexate met the ACR 50 criteria (for a 50 percent improvement) 
(P<0.001). Patients receiving etanercept plus methotrexate had significantly 
better outcomes according to all measures of disease activity. The only adverse 
events associated with etanercept were mild injection-site reactions, and no 
patient withdrew from the study because of adverse events associated with 
etanercept.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with persistently active rheumatoid arthritis, the 
combination of etanercept and methotrexate was safe and well tolerated and 
provided significantly greater clinical benefit than methotrexate alone.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199901283400401
PMID: 9920948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]