---
reference_id: PMID:32511983
title: "Tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (L-MIND): a multicentre, prospective, single-arm, phase 2 study."
authors:
- Salles G
- Duell J
- González Barca E
- Tournilhac O
- Jurczak W
- Liberati AM
- Nagy Z
- Obr A
- Gaidano G
- André M
- Kalakonda N
- Dreyling M
- Weirather J
- Dirnberger-Hertweck M
- Ambarkhane S
- Fingerle-Rowson G
- Maddocks K
journal: Lancet Oncol
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(20)30225-4
keywords:
- Adolescent
- Adult
- Aged
- "Aged, 80 and over"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/administration & dosage"
- Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/therapeutic use
- "Drug Resistance, Neoplasm/drug effects"
- Female
- Follow-Up Studies
- Humans
- "Lenalidomide/administration & dosage"
- "Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse/drug therapy, pathology"
- Male
- Middle Aged
- "Neoplasm Recurrence, Local/drug therapy, pathology"
- Prospective Studies
- Salvage Therapy
- Survival Rate
- Treatment Outcome
- Young Adult
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (L-MIND): a multicentre, prospective, single-arm, phase 2 study.
**Authors:** Salles G, Duell J, González Barca E, Tournilhac O, Jurczak W, Liberati AM, Nagy Z, Obr A, Gaidano G, André M, Kalakonda N, Dreyling M, Weirather J, Dirnberger-Hertweck M, Ambarkhane S, Fingerle-Rowson G, Maddocks K
**Journal:** Lancet Oncol (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1016/S1470-2045(20)30225-4](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1470-2045(20)30225-4)

## Content

1. Lancet Oncol. 2020 Jul;21(7):978-988. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(20)30225-4. Epub
 2020 Jun 5.

Tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma (L-MIND): a multicentre, prospective, single-arm, phase 2 study.

Salles G(1), Duell J(2), González Barca E(3), Tournilhac O(4), Jurczak W(5), 
Liberati AM(6), Nagy Z(7), Obr A(8), Gaidano G(9), André M(10), Kalakonda N(11), 
Dreyling M(12), Weirather J(13), Dirnberger-Hertweck M(13), Ambarkhane S(13), 
Fingerle-Rowson G(13), Maddocks K(14).

Author information:
(1)Hématologie, Hospices Civils de Lyon and Université de Lyon, Lyon, France. 
Electronic address: gilles.salles@chu-lyon.fr.
(2)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik II, Universitätsklinik Würzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Hematology, Institut Catalá d'Oncologia, Hospital Duran i 
Reynals, Institut d'Investigacio Biomedica de Bellvitge, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Service d'Hématologie Clinique et de Thérapie Cellulaire, Centres Hospitalier 
Universitaire Estaing, Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(5)Maria Skłodowska-Curie National Institute of Oncology, Kraków, Poland.
(6)Università degli Studi di Perugia, Azienda Ospedaliera Santa Maria di Terni, 
Terni, Italy.
(7)1st Department of Internal Medicine, Semmelweis University, Budapest, 
Hungary.
(8)Department of Hemato-Oncology, Palacký University and University Hospital, 
Olomouc, Czech Republic.
(9)Division of Hematology, Department of Translational Medicine, Università del 
Piemonte Orientale Amedeo Avogadro, Novara, Italy.
(10)Department of Haematology, Université Catholique de Louvain, CHU UCL Namur, 
Yvoir, Belgium.
(11)Molecular and Clinical Cancer Medicine, University of Liverpool and The 
Clatterbridge Cancer Centre, Liverpool, UK.
(12)Department of Medicine III, University Hospital Groβhadern, Ludwig 
Maximilians University, Munich, Germany.
(13)MorphoSys, Planegg, Germany.
(14)Department of Internal Medicine, Arthur G James Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2020 Jul;21(7):870-872. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(20)30275-8.

BACKGROUND: Patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma 
who are ineligible for autologous stem-cell transplantation have poor outcomes 
and few treatment options. Tafasitamab (MOR208) is an Fc-enhanced, humanised, 
anti-CD19 monoclonal antibody that has shown preclinical and single-agent 
activity in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell malignancies. 
Preclinical data suggested that tafasitamab might act synergistically with 
lenalidomide. We aimed to assess the antitumour activity and safety of 
tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse 
large B-cell lymphoma who were ineligible for autologous stem-cell 
transplantation.
METHODS: In this multicentre, open-label, single-arm, phase 2 study (L-MIND), 
patients older than 18 years with histologically confirmed diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma, who relapsed or had refractory disease after previous treatment with 
one to three systemic regimens (with at least one anti-CD20 therapy), were not 
candidates for high-dose chemotherapy and subsequent autologous stem-cell 
transplantation, had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 
0-2, and had measurable disease at baseline were recruited from 35 academic and 
community hospitals in ten countries. Patients received coadministered 
intravenous tafasitamab (12 mg/kg) and oral lenalidomide (25 mg/day) for up to 
12 cycles (28 days each), followed by tafasitamab monotherapy (in patients with 
stable disease or better) until disease progression. The primary endpoint was 
the proportion of patients with an objective response (centrally assessed), 
defined as a complete or partial response according to the 2007 International 
Working Group response criteria for malignant lymphoma. Antitumour activity 
analyses are based on all patients who received at least one dose of both 
tafasitamab and lenalidomide; safety analyses are based on all patients who 
received at least one dose of either study medication. Recruitment is complete, 
and the trial is in follow-up. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, 
NCT02399085.
FINDINGS: Between Jan 18, 2016, and Nov 15, 2017, 156 patients were screened: 81 
were enrolled and received at least one dose of either study medication, and 80 
received at least one dose of both tafasitamab and lenalidomide. Median 
follow-up was 13·2 months (IQR 7·3-20·4) as of data cutoff on Nov 30, 2018. 48 
(60%; 95% CI 48-71) of 80 patients who received tafasitamab plus lenalidomide 
had an objective response: 34 (43%; 32-54) had a complete response and 14 (18%; 
10-28) had a partial response. The most common treatment-emergent adverse events 
of grade 3 or worse were neutropenia (39 [48%] of 81 patients), thrombocytopenia 
(14 [17%]), and febrile neutropenia (ten [12%]). Serious adverse events occurred 
in 41 (51%) of 81 patients. The most frequently reported serious adverse events 
(in two or more patients) were pneumonia (five [6%]), febrile neutropenia (five 
[6%]), pulmonary embolism (three [4%]), bronchitis (two [2%]), atrial 
fibrillation (two [2%]), and congestive cardiac failure (two [2%]).
INTERPRETATION: Tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide was well tolerated 
and resulted in a high proportion of patients with relapsed or refractory 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma ineligible for autologous stem-cell 
transplantation having a complete response, and might represent a new 
therapeutic option in this setting.
FUNDING: MorphoSys.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(20)30225-4
PMID: 32511983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]