---
reference_id: PMID:26045340
title: "Necitumumab plus gemcitabine and cisplatin versus gemcitabine and cisplatin alone as first-line therapy in patients with stage IV squamous non-small-cell lung cancer (SQUIRE): an open-label, randomised, controlled phase 3 trial."
authors:
- Thatcher N
- Hirsch FR
- Luft AV
- Szczesna A
- Ciuleanu TE
- Dediu M
- Ramlau R
- Galiulin RK
- Bálint B
- Losonczy G
- Kazarnowicz A
- Park K
- Schumann C
- Reck M
- Depenbrock H
- Nanda S
- Kruljac-Letunic A
- Kurek R
- Paz-Ares L
- Socinski MA
- SQUIRE Investigators
journal: Lancet Oncol
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00021-2
keywords:
- Adult
- Age Factors
- Aged
- "Aged, 80 and over"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/administration & dosage"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized"
- Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/therapeutic use
- "Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung/drug therapy, mortality, pathology"
- "Carcinoma, Squamous Cell/drug therapy, mortality, pathology"
- "Cisplatin/administration & dosage"
- Disease-Free Survival
- "Dose-Response Relationship, Drug"
- Drug Administration Schedule
- Female
- "Gentamicins/administration & dosage"
- Humans
- Kaplan-Meier Estimate
- "Lung Neoplasms/drug therapy, mortality, pathology"
- Male
- Maximum Tolerated Dose
- Middle Aged
- Neoplasm Invasiveness/pathology
- Neoplasm Staging
- Proportional Hazards Models
- Risk Assessment
- Sex Factors
- Survival Analysis
- Treatment Outcome
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Necitumumab plus gemcitabine and cisplatin versus gemcitabine and cisplatin alone as first-line therapy in patients with stage IV squamous non-small-cell lung cancer (SQUIRE): an open-label, randomised, controlled phase 3 trial.
**Authors:** Thatcher N, Hirsch FR, Luft AV, Szczesna A, Ciuleanu TE, Dediu M, Ramlau R, Galiulin RK, Bálint B, Losonczy G, Kazarnowicz A, Park K, Schumann C, Reck M, Depenbrock H, Nanda S, Kruljac-Letunic A, Kurek R, Paz-Ares L, Socinski MA, SQUIRE Investigators
**Journal:** Lancet Oncol (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00021-2](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00021-2)

## Content

1. Lancet Oncol. 2015 Jul;16(7):763-74. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00021-2. Epub 
2015 Jun 1.

Necitumumab plus gemcitabine and cisplatin versus gemcitabine and cisplatin 
alone as first-line therapy in patients with stage IV squamous non-small-cell 
lung cancer (SQUIRE): an open-label, randomised, controlled phase 3 trial.

Thatcher N(1), Hirsch FR(2), Luft AV(3), Szczesna A(4), Ciuleanu TE(5), Dediu 
M(6), Ramlau R(7), Galiulin RK(8), Bálint B(9), Losonczy G(10), Kazarnowicz 
A(11), Park K(12), Schumann C(13), Reck M(14), Depenbrock H(15), Nanda S(16), 
Kruljac-Letunic A(15), Kurek R(15), Paz-Ares L(17), Socinski MA(18); SQUIRE 
Investigators.

Collaborators: Briggs P, Broad A, Clingan P, Hui R, Leong D, Aigner K, Pirker R, 
Ulsperger E, Bolitschek J, Bosquee L, Bustin F, Goeminne JC, Lambrechts M, Louis 
R, Santos Borges G, Escoleguy Barrios CH, Brust L, Cabral CF, de Castro G Jr, 
Faulhaber A, Franke FA, Ramos Lessa ÁE, Rocha Lima AP, Abrao Miziara JE, de 
Matos Neto JN, Rodrigues Pereira J, Ahmed S, Reiman AJ, Sehdev S, Samarzija M, 
Trivanovic D, Vrbica Z, Barlési F, Berard H, Burki F, Chouaid C, Corre R, 
Créquit P, Dansin E, Denis F, Gervais R, Goupil F, Rebattu P, Khayat D, 
Moro-Sibilot D, Le Moulec S, Lecaer H, Perol M, Pouessel D, Robinet G, Bargon J, 
Dittrich I, Eberhardt WE, Eschbach C, Fischer JR, Hapke G, Mezger J, Müller T, 
Nagel S, von Pawel J, Reck M, Schneller F, Schmittel A, Schulz C, Schumann C, 
Serke M, Stauder H, Thomas M, Wiest GH, Wiewrodt R, Wilke HJ, Kropf-Sanchem C, 
Keilholz U, Schütte W, Georgoulias V, Kalofonos H, Syrigos K, Zarogoulidis K, 
Bálint B, Király Z, Losonczy G, Pápai-Székely Z, Szalai Z, Szima B, Tolnay E, 
Vennes Z, Morócz É, Amoroso D, Bearz A, Bidoli P, Buzzoni R, Crino L, Gamucci T, 
Siena S, Sobrero A, Tiseo M, Zilembo N, Cho EK, Kim HK, Kim JH, Kim SW, Lee JS, 
Park K, Song EK, Yhim HY, Bello M 3rd, Fajardo TN, Galicia AP, Juat NS, Tamayo 
B, Uy MN, Yap MG, Karczmarek-Borowska B, Kazarnowicz A, Ramlau R, Sawrycki P, 
Serwatowski P, Szafranski W, Szczesna A, Tomeczko J, Bryl M, Almodovar MT, 
Barata F, Soares M, Teixeira E, Aldea C, Ciuleanu TE, Dediu M, Gavrilescu DV, 
Lungulescu D, Patran M, Taflan CL, Volovat C, Akopov AL, Cheporov S, Davidenko 
IS, Dobrovolskaya N, Galiulin RK, Gotovkin EA, Karaseva NA, Kotiv BN, Lipatov O, 
Luft AV, Sherman NZ, Solovyev V, Jovanovic D, Perin B, Petrovic MD, Rancic M, de 
Lima Lopes G, Beniak J, Berzinec P, Kasan P, Christoffel Botha M, Dreosti LM, 
Landers GA, Bastus R, Belda C, Perez Cedrés SM, Sánchez-Escribano R, Gonzalez 
Larriba J, Ales Martinez JE, Pallares C, Palmero R, Paz-Ares LR, Ponce S, 
Provencio M, Viñolas Segarra N, Rubio Viqueira B, Chang GC, Hsia TC, 
Dechaphunkul A, Sunpaweravong P, Thongprasert S, Bower M, Ezhil M, Geldart TR, 
Lord HK, Maguire J, Middleton G, Nicolson M, Price A, Rankin EM, Skailes GE, 
Summers YJ, Taylor PD, Alexander RR, Behl D, Bradford DS, Dakhil SR, Dunder SG, 
Ghazal H, Gordon RA, Khojasteh A, Kio E, Levine MA, McClean JW, Miller VA, 
Osarogiagbon R, Paik PK, Payne J, Shtivelband MI, Spira A.

Author information:
(1)The Christie Hospital, Manchester, UK. Electronic address: 
nick.thatcher@christie.nhs.uk.
(2)University of Colorado Cancer Center, Aurora, CO, USA.
(3)Leningrad Regional Clinical Hospital, St Petersburg, Russia.
(4)Regional Lung Disease Hospital, Otwock, Poland.
(5)Institutul Oncologic Prof Dr Ion Chiricuta and UMF Iuliu Hatieganu, 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(6)Institute of Oncology, Bucharest, Romania.
(7)Poznan University of Medical Sciences, Poznań, Poland.
(8)Omsk Regional Oncology Center, Omsk, Russia.
(9)Csongrád County Hospital of Chest Diseases, Deszk, Hungary.
(10)Semmelweis University Department of Pulmonology, Budapest, Hungary.
(11)Tuberculosis and Lung Disease Hospital, Olsztyn, Poland.
(12)Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, South Korea.
(13)Department of Internal Medicine II, University Hospital of Ulm, Ulm, 
Germany; Clinic for Pneumology, Thoracic Oncology, Sleep- and Respiratory 
Critical Care, Kempten-Oberallgaeu Hospitals, Kempten, Germany.
(14)Lung Clinic Grosshansdorf, Airway Research Center North (ARCN), Member of 
the German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Grosshansdorf, Germany.
(15)Lilly Deutschland GmbH, Bad Homburg, Germany.
(16)Eli Lilly and Company, Bridgewater, NJ, USA.
(17)Instituto de Biomedicina de Sevilla - IBIS (Hospital Virgen del Rocío, 
Universidad de Sevilla & CSIC), Seville, Spain.
(18)Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2015 Jul;16(7):738-9. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00020-0.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2015 Aug;12(8):436. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2015.110.

BACKGROUND: Necitumumab is a second-generation, recombinant, human 
immunoglobulin G1 EGFR antibody. In this study, we aimed to compare treatment 
with necitumumab plus gemcitabine and cisplatin versus gemcitabine and cisplatin 
alone in patients with previously untreated stage IV squamous non-small-cell 
lung cancer.
METHODS: We did this open-label, randomised phase 3 study at 184 investigative 
sites in 26 countries. Patients aged 18 years or older with histologically or 
cytologically confirmed stage IV squamous non-small-cell lung cancer, with an 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0-2 and adequate 
organ function and who had not received previous chemotherapy for their disease 
were eligible for inclusion. Enrolled patients were randomly assigned centrally 
1:1 to a maximum of six 3-week cycles of gemcitabine and cisplastin chemotherapy 
with or without necitumumab according to a block randomisation scheme (block 
size of four) by a telephone-based interactive voice response system or 
interactive web response system. Chemotherapy was gemcitabine 1250 mg/m(2) 
administered intravenously over 30 min on days 1 and 8 of a 3-week cycle and 
cisplatin 75 mg/m(2) administered intravenously over 120 min on day 1 of a 
3-week cycle. Necitumumab 800 mg, administered intravenously over a minimum of 
50 min on days 1 and 8, was continued after the end of chemotherapy until 
disease progression or intolerable toxic side-effects occurred. Randomisation 
was stratified by ECOG performance status and geographical region. Neither 
physicians nor patients were masked to group assignment because of the expected 
occurrence of acne-like rash--a class effect of EGFR antibodies--that would have 
unmasked most patients and investigators to treatment. The primary endpoint was 
overall survival, analysed by intention to treat. We report the final clinical 
analysis. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00981058.
FINDINGS: Between Jan 7, 2010, and Feb 22, 2012, we enrolled 1093 patients and 
randomly assigned them to receive necitumumab plus gemcitabine and cisplatin 
(n=545) or gemcitabine and cisplatin (n=548). Overall survival was significantly 
longer in the necitumumab plus gemcitabine and cisplatin group than in the 
gemcitabine and cisplatin alone group (median 11·5 months [95% CI 10·4-12·6]) vs 
9·9 months [8·9-11·1]; stratified hazard ratio 0·84 [95% CI 0·74-0·96; p=0·01]). 
In the necitumumab plus gemcitabine and cisplatin group, the number of patients 
with at least one grade 3 or worse adverse event was higher (388 [72%] of 538 
patients) than in the gemcitabine and cisplatin group (333 [62%] of 541), as was 
the incidence of serious adverse events (257 [48%] of 538 patients vs 203 [38%] 
of 541). More patients in the necitumumab plus gemcitabine and cisplatin group 
had grade 3-4 hypomagnesaemia (47 [9%] of 538 patients in the necitumumab plus 
gemcitabine and cisplatin group vs six [1%] of 541 in the gemcitabine and 
cisplatin group) and grade 3 rash (20 [4%] vs one [<1%]). Including events 
related to disease progression, adverse events with an outcome of death were 
reported for 66 (12%) of 538 patients in the necitumumab plus gemcitabine and 
cisplatin group and 57 (11%) of 541 patients in the gemcitabine and cisplatin 
group; these were deemed to be related to study drugs in 15 (3%) and ten (2%) 
patients, respectively. Overall, we found that the safety profile of necitumumab 
plus gemcitabine and cisplatin was acceptable and in line with expectations.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings show that the addition of necitumumab to 
gemcitabine and cisplatin chemotherapy improves overall survival in patients 
with advanced squamous non-small-cell lung cancer and represents a new 
first-line treatment option for this disease.
FUNDING: Eli Lilly and Company.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(15)00021-2
PMID: 26045340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]