---
reference_id: PMID:11248153
title: Use of chemotherapy plus a monoclonal antibody against HER2 for metastatic breast cancer that overexpresses HER2.
authors:
- Slamon DJ
- Leyland-Jones B
- Shak S
- Fuchs H
- Paton V
- Bajamonde A
- Fleming T
- Eiermann W
- Wolter J
- Pegram M
- Baselga J
- Norton L
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2001'
doi: 10.1056/NEJM200103153441101
keywords:
- Adult
- Aged
- "Anthracyclines/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized"
- "Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Breast Neoplasms/drug therapy, metabolism, mortality, pathology"
- "Cyclophosphamide/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Disease Progression
- "Doxorubicin/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Epirubicin/therapeutic use
- Female
- Heart Diseases/chemically induced
- Humans
- Middle Aged
- Neoplasm Metastasis
- "Paclitaxel/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Erb-b2 Receptor Tyrosine Kinases/immunology, metabolism"
- Survival Analysis
- Trastuzumab
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Use of chemotherapy plus a monoclonal antibody against HER2 for metastatic breast cancer that overexpresses HER2.
**Authors:** Slamon DJ, Leyland-Jones B, Shak S, Fuchs H, Paton V, Bajamonde A, Fleming T, Eiermann W, Wolter J, Pegram M, Baselga J, Norton L
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2001)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJM200103153441101](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJM200103153441101)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2001 Mar 15;344(11):783-92. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200103153441101.

Use of chemotherapy plus a monoclonal antibody against HER2 for metastatic 
breast cancer that overexpresses HER2.

Slamon DJ(1), Leyland-Jones B, Shak S, Fuchs H, Paton V, Bajamonde A, Fleming T, 
Eiermann W, Wolter J, Pegram M, Baselga J, Norton L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, 
Calif 90095-1678, USA. dslamon@mednet.ucla.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Sep 27;345(13):995-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200109273451312.
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Sep 27;345(13):996.
    N Engl J Med. 2001 Sep 27;345(13):996-7.

BACKGROUND: The HER2 gene, which encodes the growth factor receptor HER2, is 
amplified and HER2 is overexpressed in 25 to 30 percent of breast cancers, 
increasing the aggressiveness of the tumor.
METHODS: We evaluated the efficacy and safety of trastuzumab, a recombinant 
monoclonal antibody against HER2, in women with metastatic breast cancer that 
overexpressed HER2. We randomly assigned 234 patients to receive standard 
chemotherapy alone and 235 patients to receive standard chemotherapy plus 
trastuzumab. Patients who had not previously received adjuvant (postoperative) 
therapy with an anthracycline were treated with doxorubicin (or epirubicin in 
the case of 36 women) and cyclophosphamide alone (138 women) or with trastuzumab 
(143 women). Patients who had previously received adjuvant anthracycline were 
treated with paclitaxel alone (96 women) or paclitaxel with trastuzumab (92 
women).
RESULTS: The addition of trastuzumab to chemotherapy was associated with a 
longer time to disease progression (median, 7.4 vs. 4.6 months; P<0.001), a 
higher rate of objective response (50 percent vs. 32 percent, P<0.001), a longer 
duration of response (median, 9.1 vs. 6.1 months; P<0.001), a lower rate of 
death at 1 year (22 percent vs. 33 percent, P=0.008), longer survival (median 
survival, 25.1 vs. 20.3 months; P=0.01), and a 20 percent reduction in the risk 
of death. The most important adverse event was cardiac dysfunction of New York 
Heart Association class III or IV, which occurred in 27 percent of the group 
given an anthracycline, cyclophosphamide, and trastuzumab; 8 percent of the 
group given an anthracycline and cyclophosphamide alone; 13 percent of the group 
given paclitaxel and trastuzumab; and 1 percent of the group given paclitaxel 
alone. Although the cardiotoxicity was potentially severe and, in some cases, 
life-threatening, the symptoms generally improved with standard medical 
management.
CONCLUSIONS: Trastuzumab increases the clinical benefit of first-line 
chemotherapy in metastatic breast cancer that overexpresses HER2.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200103153441101
PMID: 11248153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]