---
reference_id: PMID:36507686
title: "Talquetamab, a T-Cell-Redirecting GPRC5D Bispecific Antibody for Multiple Myeloma."
authors:
- Chari A
- Minnema MC
- Berdeja JG
- Oriol A
- van de Donk NWCJ
- Rodríguez-Otero P
- Askari E
- Mateos MV
- Costa LJ
- Caers J
- Verona R
- Girgis S
- Yang S
- Goldsmith RB
- Yao X
- Pillarisetti K
- Hilder BW
- Russell J
- Goldberg JD
- Krishnan A
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2204591
keywords:
- Humans
- "Antibodies, Bispecific/administration & dosage, adverse effects, immunology, therapeutic use"
- "Cytokine Release Syndrome/chemically induced, etiology"
- "Dysgeusia/chemically induced, etiology"
- "Multiple Myeloma/drug therapy, immunology, therapy"
- "Neoplasm Recurrence, Local/drug therapy"
- "Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled/antagonists & inhibitors, immunology"
- "T-Lymphocytes/drug effects, immunology"
- "CD3 Complex/antagonists & inhibitors, immunology"
- "Administration, Intravenous"
- "Injections, Subcutaneous"
- "Skin Diseases/chemically induced, etiology"
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Talquetamab, a T-Cell-Redirecting GPRC5D Bispecific Antibody for Multiple Myeloma.
**Authors:** Chari A, Minnema MC, Berdeja JG, Oriol A, van de Donk NWCJ, Rodríguez-Otero P, Askari E, Mateos MV, Costa LJ, Caers J, Verona R, Girgis S, Yang S, Goldsmith RB, Yao X, Pillarisetti K, Hilder BW, Russell J, Goldberg JD, Krishnan A
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa2204591](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa2204591)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2022 Dec 15;387(24):2232-2244. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2204591. Epub 
2022 Dec 10.

Talquetamab, a T-Cell-Redirecting GPRC5D Bispecific Antibody for Multiple 
Myeloma.

Chari A(1), Minnema MC(1), Berdeja JG(1), Oriol A(1), van de Donk NWCJ(1), 
Rodríguez-Otero P(1), Askari E(1), Mateos MV(1), Costa LJ(1), Caers J(1), Verona 
R(1), Girgis S(1), Yang S(1), Goldsmith RB(1), Yao X(1), Pillarisetti K(1), 
Hilder BW(1), Russell J(1), Goldberg JD(1), Krishnan A(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York (A.C.); University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht University, Utrecht (M.C.M.), and Amsterdam University 
Medical Center, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Cancer Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam 
(N.W.C.J.D.) - both in the Netherlands; Sarah Cannon Research Institute and 
Tennessee Oncology, Nashville (J.G.B.); Institut Català d'Oncologia and Institut 
Josep Carreras, Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Badalona, Barcelona (A.O.), 
Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona (P.R.-O.), Hospital Universitario 
Fundación Jiménez Díaz, Madrid (E.A.), and University Hospital of Salamanca, 
Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de Salamanca, Centro de Investigación del 
Cáncer, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Cáncer, Salamanca (M.-V.M.) 
- all in Spain; the University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham (L.J.C.); 
Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Liège, Liege, Belgium (J.C.); Janssen 
Research and Development, Spring House, PA (R.V., S.G., S.Y., R.B.G., K.P., 
B.W.H., J.R.); Janssen Research and Development, La Jolla (X.Y.), and City of 
Hope Comprehensive Cancer Center, Duarte (A.K.) - both in California; and 
Janssen Research and Development, Raritan, NJ (J.D.G.).

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2022 Dec 15;387(24):2287-2290. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe2208708.

BACKGROUND: G protein-coupled receptor, family C, group 5, member D (GPRC5D) is 
an orphan receptor expressed in malignant plasma cells. Talquetamab, a 
bispecific antibody against CD3 and GPRC5D, redirects T cells to mediate killing 
of GPRC5D-expressing myeloma cells.
METHODS: In a phase 1 study, we evaluated talquetamab administered intravenously 
weekly or every other week (in doses from 0.5 to 180 μg per kilogram of body 
weight) or subcutaneously weekly, every other week, or monthly (5 to 1600 μg per 
kilogram) in patients who had heavily pretreated relapsed or refractory multiple 
myeloma that had progressed with established therapies (a median of six previous 
lines of therapy) or who could not receive these therapies without unacceptable 
side effects. The primary end points - the frequency and type of dose-limiting 
toxic effects (study part 1 only), adverse events, and laboratory abnormalities 
- were assessed in order to select the recommended doses for a phase 2 study.
RESULTS: At the data-cutoff date, 232 patients had received talquetamab (102 
intravenously and 130 subcutaneously). At the two subcutaneous doses recommended 
for a phase 2 study (405 μg per kilogram weekly [30 patients] and 800 μg per 
kilogram every other week [44 patients]), common adverse events were cytokine 
release syndrome (in 77% and 80% of the patients, respectively), skin-related 
events (in 67% and 70%), and dysgeusia (in 63% and 57%); all but one cytokine 
release syndrome event were of grade 1 or 2. One dose-limiting toxic effect of 
grade 3 rash was reported in a patient who had received talquetamab at the 
800-μg dose level. At median follow-ups of 11.7 months (in patients who had 
received talquetamab at the 405-μg dose level) and 4.2 months (in those who had 
received it at the 800-μg dose level), the percentages of patients with a 
response were 70% (95% confidence interval [CI], 51 to 85) and 64% (95% CI, 48 
to 78), respectively. The median duration of response was 10.2 months and 7.8 
months, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Cytokine release syndrome, skin-related events, and dysgeusia were 
common with talquetamab treatment but were primarily low-grade. Talquetamab 
induced a substantial response among patients with heavily pretreated relapsed 
or refractory multiple myeloma. (Funded by Janssen Research and Development; 
MonumenTAL-1 ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT03399799.).

Copyright © 2022 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2204591
PMID: 36507686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]