---
reference_id: PMID:17634458
title: "Certolizumab pegol for the treatment of Crohn's disease."
authors:
- Sandborn WJ
- Feagan BG
- Stoinov S
- Honiball PJ
- Rutgeerts P
- Mason D
- Bloomfield R
- Schreiber S
- PRECISE 1 Study Investigators
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2007'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa067594
keywords:
- Adolescent
- Adult
- Aged
- Anti-Inflammatory Agents/therapeutic use
- Antibodies
- "Antibodies, Antinuclear"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized"
- C-Reactive Protein/analysis
- Certolizumab Pegol
- "Crohn Disease/classification, drug therapy, immunology"
- Double-Blind Method
- "Drug Therapy, Combination"
- Female
- Humans
- "Immunoglobulin Fab Fragments/adverse effects, immunology, therapeutic use"
- Immunosuppressive Agents/therapeutic use
- "Injections, Subcutaneous"
- Male
- Middle Aged
- "Polyethylene Glycols/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Remission Induction
- "Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha/antagonists & inhibitors"
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Certolizumab pegol for the treatment of Crohn's disease.
**Authors:** Sandborn WJ, Feagan BG, Stoinov S, Honiball PJ, Rutgeerts P, Mason D, Bloomfield R, Schreiber S, PRECISE 1 Study Investigators
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2007)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa067594](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa067594)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2007 Jul 19;357(3):228-38. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa067594.

Certolizumab pegol for the treatment of Crohn's disease.

Sandborn WJ(1), Feagan BG, Stoinov S, Honiball PJ, Rutgeerts P, Mason D, 
Bloomfield R, Schreiber S; PRECISE 1 Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA. sandborn.william@mayo.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2007 Jul 19;357(3):296-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe078111.

BACKGROUND: Certolizumab pegol is a pegylated humanized Fab' fragment that binds 
tumor necrosis factor alpha.
METHODS: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, we evaluated 
the efficacy of certolizumab pegol in 662 adults with moderate-to-severe Crohn's 
disease. Patients were stratified according to baseline levels of C-reactive 
protein (CRP) and were randomly assigned to receive either 400 mg of 
certolizumab pegol or placebo subcutaneously at weeks 0, 2, and 4 and then every 
4 weeks. Primary end points were the induction of a response at week 6 and a 
response at both weeks 6 and 26.
RESULTS: Among patients with a baseline CRP level of at least 10 mg per liter, 
37% of patients in the certolizumab group had a response at week 6, as compared 
with 26% in the placebo group (P=0.04). At both weeks 6 and 26, the 
corresponding values were 22% and 12%, respectively (P=0.05). In the overall 
population, response rates at week 6 were 35% in the certolizumab group and 27% 
in the placebo group (P=0.02); at both weeks 6 and 26, the response rates were 
23% and 16%, respectively (P=0.02). At weeks 6 and 26, the rates of remission in 
the two groups did not differ significantly (P=0.17). Serious adverse events 
were reported in 10% of patients in the certolizumab group and 7% of those in 
the placebo group; serious infections were reported in 2% and less than 1%, 
respectively. In the certolizumab group, antibodies to the drug developed in 8% 
of patients, and antinuclear antibodies developed in 2%.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease, induction and 
maintenance therapy with certolizumab pegol was associated with a modest 
improvement in response rates, as compared with placebo, but with no significant 
improvement in remission rates. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00152490 
[ClinicalTrials.gov].).

Copyright 2007 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa067594
PMID: 17634458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]