---
reference_id: PMID:39952926
title: "The anti-GD2 monoclonal antibody naxitamab plus GM-CSF for relapsed or refractory high-risk neuroblastoma: a phase 2 clinical trial."
authors:
- Mora J
- Chan GCF
- Morgenstern DA
- Amoroso L
- Nysom K
- Faber J
- Wingerter A
- Bear MK
- Rubio-San-Simon A
- de Las Heras BM
- Tornøe K
- Düring M
- Kushner BH
journal: Nat Commun
year: '2025'
doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-56619-x
keywords:
- Humans
- "Neuroblastoma/drug therapy, pathology, mortality"
- "Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor/administration & dosage, therapeutic use, adverse effects"
- Female
- Male
- Child
- "Child, Preschool"
- Infant
- Adolescent
- Adult
- "Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/therapeutic use, adverse effects"
- "Gangliosides/immunology, antagonists & inhibitors"
- Young Adult
- "Neoplasm Recurrence, Local/drug therapy"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/administration & dosage, therapeutic use, adverse effects"
- Treatment Outcome
content_type: abstract_only
---

# The anti-GD2 monoclonal antibody naxitamab plus GM-CSF for relapsed or refractory high-risk neuroblastoma: a phase 2 clinical trial.
**Authors:** Mora J, Chan GCF, Morgenstern DA, Amoroso L, Nysom K, Faber J, Wingerter A, Bear MK, Rubio-San-Simon A, de Las Heras BM, Tornøe K, Düring M, Kushner BH
**Journal:** Nat Commun (2025)
**DOI:** [10.1038/s41467-025-56619-x](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-025-56619-x)

## Content

1. Nat Commun. 2025 Feb 14;16(1):1636. doi: 10.1038/s41467-025-56619-x.

The anti-GD2 monoclonal antibody naxitamab plus GM-CSF for relapsed or 
refractory high-risk neuroblastoma: a phase 2 clinical trial.

Mora J(1), Chan GCF(2)(3), Morgenstern DA(4), Amoroso L(5)(6), Nysom K(7), Faber 
J(8), Wingerter A(8), Bear MK(9), Rubio-San-Simon A(10), de Las Heras BM(11), 
Tornøe K(12), Düring M(12), Kushner BH(13).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Cancer Center Barcelona, Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Barcelona, 
Spain. jaume.mora@sjd.es.
(2)Queen Mary Hospital & Hong Kong Children's Hospital, Pok Fu Lam, Hong Kong.
(3)The University of Hong Kong, Pok Fu Lam, Hong Kong.
(4)The Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
(5)IRCCS Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genoa, Italy.
(6)Department of Maternal Infantile and Urological Sciences, Pediatric 
Onco-Hematology Unit, Policlinico Umberto I, Sapienza, University of Rome, Rome, 
Italy.
(7)Copenhagen University Hospital - Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(8)Department of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology/Hemostaseology, Center for 
Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine, University Medical Center of the Johannes 
Gutenberg University Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(9)Riley Hospital for Children, Indianapolis, IN, USA.
(10)Hospital Infantil Universitario Niño Jesús, Madrid, Spain.
(11)Hospital Universitario y Politecnico La Fe, Valencia, Spain.
(12)Y-mAbs A/S, Hørsholm, Denmark.
(13)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.

In this single-arm, non-randomized, phase 2 trial (NCT03363373), 74 patients 
with relapsed/refractory high-risk neuroblastoma and residual disease in 
bone/bone marrow (BM) received naxitamab on Days 1, 3, and 5 (3 mg/kg/day) with 
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (Days -4 to 5) every 4 weeks, 
until complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) followed by 5 additional 
cycles every 4 weeks. Primary endpoint in the prespecified interim analysis was 
overall response (2017 International Neuroblastoma Response Criteria). Among 26 
responders (CR + PR) in the efficacy population (N = 52), 58% had refractory 
disease, and 42% had relapsed disease. Overall response rate (ORR) was 50% (95% 
CI: 36-64%), and CR and PR were observed in 38% and 12%, respectively. With the 
95% CI lower limit for ORR exceeding 20%, the primary endpoint of overall 
response was met. Patients with evaluable bone disease had a 58% (29/50) bone 
compartment response (CR, 40%; PR, 18%). BM compartment response was 74% (17/23; 
CR, 74%). One-year overall survival and progression-free survival (secondary 
endpoints) were 93% (95% CI: 80-98%) and 35% (95% CI: 16-54%), respectively. 
Naxitamab-related Grade 3 adverse events included hypotension (58%) and pain 
(54%). Overall, naxitamab demonstrated clinically meaningful efficacy with 
manageable safety in patients with residual neuroblastoma in bone/BM.

© 2025. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-56619-x
PMCID: PMC11828896
PMID: 39952926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: J.M. has received 
consulting fees from Y-mAbs Therapeutics, Inc. D.A.M. has been a member of 
advisory boards/consultant for Clarity Pharmaceuticals, EUSA Pharma, Oncoheroes 
Biosciences, RayzeBio, Inc., Regeneron, US WorldMeds, and Y-mAbs Therapeutics, 
Inc.; has received speaker fees from Takeda Israel and Y-mAbs Therapeutics, 
Inc.; and received travel expenses from AbbVie. L.A. has been a member of an 
advisory board for Recordati (EUSA Pharma). K.N. has been a member of advisory 
boards/consultant for Bayer AG, EUSA Pharma, and Y-mAbs Therapeutics, Inc.; has 
performed teaching for Bayer AG and Y-mAbs Therapeutics, Inc.; and is a member 
of a Data Monitoring Committee for Lilly. J.F. has coordinated PI and 
participation in a compassionate use program for Y-mAbs Therapeutics, Inc. A.W. 
has been an advisory board member for EUSA Pharma and Y-mAbs Therapeutics, Inc.; 
and has received expenses for congress attendance from Y-mAbs Therapeutics, Inc. 
M.K.B. has received consulting fees from Y-mAbs Therapeutics, Inc. A.R.S.S. has 
been an advisory board member for, and has received expenses for congress 
attendance from, EUSA Pharma. K.T. and M.D. are employed by, and hold equity 
with, Y-mAbs Therapeutics, Inc. The remaining authors declare no competing 
interests.