---
reference_id: PMID:34904799
title: Polatuzumab Vedotin in Previously Untreated Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma.
authors:
- Tilly H
- Morschhauser F
- Sehn LH
- Friedberg JW
- Trněný M
- Sharman JP
- Herbaux C
- Burke JM
- Matasar M
- Rai S
- Izutsu K
- Mehta-Shah N
- Oberic L
- Chauchet A
- Jurczak W
- Song Y
- Greil R
- Mykhalska L
- Bergua-Burgués JM
- Cheung MC
- Pinto A
- Shin HJ
- Hapgood G
- Munhoz E
- Abrisqueta P
- Gau JP
- Hirata J
- Jiang Y
- Yan M
- Lee C
- Flowers CR
- Salles G
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2115304
keywords:
- Adult
- Aged
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/administration & dosage, adverse effects"
- "Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Cyclophosphamide/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Double-Blind Method
- "Doxorubicin/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Female
- Humans
- "Immunoconjugates/administration & dosage, adverse effects"
- "Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse/drug therapy, mortality"
- Male
- Middle Aged
- "Prednisone/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Progression-Free Survival
- "Rituximab/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Vincristine/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Polatuzumab Vedotin in Previously Untreated Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma.
**Authors:** Tilly H, Morschhauser F, Sehn LH, Friedberg JW, Trněný M, Sharman JP, Herbaux C, Burke JM, Matasar M, Rai S, Izutsu K, Mehta-Shah N, Oberic L, Chauchet A, Jurczak W, Song Y, Greil R, Mykhalska L, Bergua-Burgués JM, Cheung MC, Pinto A, Shin HJ, Hapgood G, Munhoz E, Abrisqueta P, Gau JP, Hirata J, Jiang Y, Yan M, Lee C, Flowers CR, Salles G
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa2115304](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa2115304)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2022 Jan 27;386(4):351-363. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2115304. Epub
2021  Dec 14.

Polatuzumab Vedotin in Previously Untreated Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma.

Tilly H(1), Morschhauser F(1), Sehn LH(1), Friedberg JW(1), Trněný M(1), Sharman 
JP(1), Herbaux C(1), Burke JM(1), Matasar M(1), Rai S(1), Izutsu K(1), 
Mehta-Shah N(1), Oberic L(1), Chauchet A(1), Jurczak W(1), Song Y(1), Greil 
R(1), Mykhalska L(1), Bergua-Burgués JM(1), Cheung MC(1), Pinto A(1), Shin 
HJ(1), Hapgood G(1), Munhoz E(1), Abrisqueta P(1), Gau JP(1), Hirata J(1), Jiang 
Y(1), Yan M(1), Lee C(1), Flowers CR(1), Salles G(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Hematology and INSERM Unité 1245, Centre 
Henri-Becquerel and University of Rouen, Rouen (H.T.), Université de Lille, 
Centre Hospitalier Universitaire (CHU) Lille, ULR 7365 - GRITA - Groupe de 
Recherche sur les Formes Injectables et les Technologies Associées, Lille 
(F.M.), CHU de Montpellier, Montpellier (C.H.), the Department of Hematology, 
Institut Universitaire du Cancer, Toulouse-Oncopole, Toulouse (L.O.), and the 
Department of Hematology, Centre Hospitalier Régional Universitaire - Besançon, 
Besançon (A.C.) - all in France; the Centre for Lymphoid Cancer at BC Cancer and 
the University of British Columbia, Vancouver (L.H.S.), the Odette Cancer 
Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto 
(M.C.C.), and F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Mississauga, ON (M.Y.) - all in Canada; the 
Wilmot Cancer Institute, University of Rochester, Rochester (J.W.F.), and 
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York (M.M., G.S.) - both in New 
York; the First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University and the General 
University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic (M.T.); the Willamette Valley Cancer 
Institute and Research Center, the US Oncology Network, Eugene, OR (J.P.S.); 
Rocky Mountain Cancer Centers, Aurora, CO (J.M.B.); Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, Montvale, NJ (M.M.); the Department of Hematology and 
Rheumatology, Kindai University, Faculty of Medicine, Osaka-Sayama City (S.R.), 
and the National Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo (K.I.) - both in Japan; 
Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis (N.M.-S.); the Maria 
Sklodowska-Curie National Research Institute of Oncology, Krakow, Poland (W.J.); 
Peking University Cancer Hospital, Beijing (Y.S.); the 3rd Medical Department, 
Paracelsus Medical University, Salzburg Cancer Research Institute-Center for 
Clinical Cancer and Immunology Trials, and Cancer Cluster Salzburg, Salzburg, 
Austria (R.G.); the Feofaniya Clinical Hospital, Kyiv, Ukraine (L.M.); Hospital 
San Pedro de Alcántara, Cáceres (J.M.B.-B.), and the Department of Hematology, 
Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Vall d'Hebron Institute of Oncology, 
Barcelona (P.A.) - both in Spain; the Hematology-Oncology and Stem Cell 
Transplantation Unit, Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Fondazione G. Pascale, IRCCS, 
Naples, Italy (A.P.); the Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of 
Internal Medicine, Research Institute of Medical Science, Pusan National 
University Hospital, Pusan National University School of Medicine, Busan, South 
Korea (H.-J.S.); Princess Alexandra Hospital, Brisbane, QLD, Australia (G.H.); 
Hospital Erasto Gaertner, Curitiba, Brazil (E.M.); Taipei Veterans General 
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan (J.-P.G.); Genentech, South San Francisco, CA (J.H., 
Y.J., C.L.); and M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston (C.R.F.).

Comment in
    Cancer Cell. 2022 Feb 14;40(2):131-133. doi: 10.1016/j.ccell.2022.01.013.
    N Engl J Med. 2023 Aug 24;389(8):764-766. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc2306105.

BACKGROUND: Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is typically treated with 
rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (R-CHOP). 
However, only 60% of patients are cured with R-CHOP. Polatuzumab vedotin is an 
antibody-drug conjugate targeting CD79b, which is ubiquitously expressed on the 
surface of malignant B cells.
METHODS: We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled, international phase 3 
trial to evaluate a modified regimen of R-CHOP (pola-R-CHP), in which 
vincristine was replaced with polatuzumab vedotin, as compared with standard 
R-CHOP, in patients with previously untreated intermediate-risk or high-risk 
DLBCL. Patients 18 to 80 years of age were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to 
receive six cycles of either pola-R-CHP or R-CHOP, plus two cycles of rituximab 
alone. The primary end point was investigator-assessed progression-free 
survival. Secondary end points included overall survival and safety.
RESULTS: Overall, 879 patients underwent randomization: 440 were assigned to the 
pola-R-CHP group and 439 to the R-CHOP group. After a median follow-up of 28.2 
months, the percentage of patients surviving without progression was 
significantly higher in the pola-R-CHP group than in the R-CHOP group (76.7% 
[95% confidence interval (CI), 72.7 to 80.8] vs. 70.2% [95% CI, 65.8 to 74.6] at 
2 years; stratified hazard ratio for progression, relapse, or death, 0.73 by Cox 
regression; 95% CI, 0.57 to 0.95; P = 0.02). Overall survival at 2 years did not 
differ significantly between the groups (88.7% [95% CI, 85.7 to 91.6] in the 
pola-R-CHP group and 88.6% [95% CI, 85.6 to 91.6] in the R-CHOP group; hazard 
ratio for death, 0.94; 95% CI, 0.65 to 1.37; P = 0.75). The safety profile was 
similar in the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with previously untreated intermediate-risk or 
high-risk DLBCL, the risk of disease progression, relapse, or death was lower 
among those who received pola-R-CHP than among those who received R-CHOP. 
(Funded by F. Hoffmann-La Roche/Genentech; POLARIX ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
NCT03274492.).

Copyright © 2021 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2115304
PMCID: PMC11702892
PMID: 34904799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]