---
reference_id: PMID:33979488
title: "Tezepelumab in Adults and Adolescents with Severe, Uncontrolled Asthma."
authors:
- Menzies-Gow A
- Corren J
- Bourdin A
- Chupp G
- Israel E
- Wechsler ME
- Brightling CE
- Griffiths JM
- Hellqvist Å
- Bowen K
- Kaur P
- Almqvist G
- Ponnarambil S
- Colice G
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2034975
keywords:
- Adolescent
- Adult
- Aged
- "Aged, 80 and over"
- "Anti-Asthmatic Agents/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Asthma/drug therapy
- Child
- Double-Blind Method
- Humans
- "Injections, Subcutaneous"
- Middle Aged
- Quality of Life
- Young Adult
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Tezepelumab in Adults and Adolescents with Severe, Uncontrolled Asthma.
**Authors:** Menzies-Gow A, Corren J, Bourdin A, Chupp G, Israel E, Wechsler ME, Brightling CE, Griffiths JM, Hellqvist Å, Bowen K, Kaur P, Almqvist G, Ponnarambil S, Colice G
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa2034975](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa2034975)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2021 May 13;384(19):1800-1809. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2034975.

Tezepelumab in Adults and Adolescents with Severe, Uncontrolled Asthma.

Menzies-Gow A(1), Corren J(1), Bourdin A(1), Chupp G(1), Israel E(1), Wechsler 
ME(1), Brightling CE(1), Griffiths JM(1), Hellqvist Å(1), Bowen K(1), Kaur P(1), 
Almqvist G(1), Ponnarambil S(1), Colice G(1).

Author information:
(1)From Royal Brompton Hospital, London (A.M.-G.), Leicester National Institute 
for Health Research Biomedical Research Centre, University of Leicester, 
Leicester (C.E.B.), and Late-stage Development, Respiratory and Immunology, 
BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Cambridge (S.P.) - all in the United 
Kingdom; the David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles (J.C.), and Global Development, Amgen, Thousand Oaks (P.K.) 
- both in California; Physiologie et Médecine Expérimentale du Cœur et des 
Muscles, Université de Montpellier, Centre National de la Recherche 
Scientifique, INSERM, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Montpellier, 
Montpellier, France (A.B.); the Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep 
Medicine, Department of Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT (G. 
Chupp); the Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine and Allergy and 
Immunology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston (E.I.); 
National Jewish Health, Denver (M.E.W.); Translational Science and Experimental 
Medicine, Research and Early Development, Respiratory and Immunology (J.M.G.), 
and Biometrics (K.B.), Late-stage Development, Respiratory and Immunology (G. 
Colice), BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, MD; and Biometrics 
(Å.H.), Late-stage Development, Respiratory and Immunology (G.A.), 
BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2021 Oct;174(10):JC115. doi: 10.7326/ACPJ202110190-115.

BACKGROUND: Tezepelumab is a human monoclonal antibody that blocks thymic 
stromal lymphopoietin, an epithelial-cell-derived cytokine implicated in the 
pathogenesis of asthma. The efficacy and safety of tezepelumab in patients with 
severe, uncontrolled asthma require further assessment.
METHODS: We conducted a phase 3, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trial. Patients (12 to 80 years of age) were randomly 
assigned to receive tezepelumab (210 mg) or placebo subcutaneously every 4 weeks 
for 52 weeks. The primary end point was the annualized rate of asthma 
exacerbations over a period of 52 weeks. This end point was also assessed in 
patients with baseline blood eosinophil counts of less than 300 cells per 
microliter. Secondary end points included the forced expiratory volume in 1 
second (FEV1) and scores on the Asthma Control Questionnaire-6 (ACQ-6; range, 0 
[no impairment] to 6 [maximum impairment]), Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire 
(AQLQ; range, 1 [maximum impairment] to 7 [no impairment]), and Asthma Symptom 
Diary (ASD; range, 0 [no symptoms] to 4 [worst possible symptoms]).
RESULTS: Overall, 1061 patients underwent randomization (529 were assigned to 
receive tezepelumab and 532 to receive placebo). The annualized rate of asthma 
exacerbations was 0.93 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.80 to 1.07) with 
tezepelumab and 2.10 (95% CI, 1.84 to 2.39) with placebo (rate ratio, 0.44; 95% 
CI, 0.37 to 0.53; P<0.001). In patients with a blood eosinophil count of less 
than 300 cells per microliter, the annualized rate was 1.02 (95% CI, 0.84 to 
1.23) with tezepelumab and 1.73 (95% CI, 1.46 to 2.05) with placebo (rate ratio, 
0.59; 95% CI, 0.46 to 0.75; P<0.001). At week 52, improvements were greater with 
tezepelumab than with placebo with respect to the prebronchodilator FEV1 (0.23 
vs. 0.09 liters; difference, 0.13 liters; 95% CI, 0.08 to 0.18; P<0.001) and 
scores on the ACQ-6 (-1.55 vs. -1.22; difference, -0.33; 95% CI, -0.46 to -0.20; 
P<0.001), AQLQ (1.49 vs. 1.15; difference, 0.34; 95% CI, 0.20 to 0.47; P<0.001), 
and ASD (-0.71 vs. -0.59; difference, -0.12; 95% CI, -0.19 to -0.04; P = 0.002). 
The frequencies and types of adverse events did not differ meaningfully between 
the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with severe, uncontrolled asthma who received tezepelumab 
had fewer exacerbations and better lung function, asthma control, and 
health-related quality of life than those who received placebo. (Funded by 
AstraZeneca and Amgen; NAVIGATOR ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT03347279.).

Copyright © 2021 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2034975
PMID: 33979488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]