---
reference_id: PMID:33845034
title: "Efficacy and safety of tisotumab vedotin in previously treated recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer (innovaTV 204/GOG-3023/ENGOT-cx6): a multicentre, open-label, single-arm, phase 2 study."
authors:
- Coleman RL
- Lorusso D
- Gennigens C
- González-Martín A
- Randall L
- Cibula D
- Lund B
- Woelber L
- Pignata S
- Forget F
- Redondo A
- Vindeløv SD
- Chen M
- Harris JR
- Smith M
- Nicacio LV
- Teng MSL
- Laenen A
- Rangwala R
- Manso L
- Mirza M
- Monk BJ
- Vergote I
- innovaTV 204/GOG-3023/ENGOT-cx6 Collaborators
journal: Lancet Oncol
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00056-5
keywords:
- Adult
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Female
- Humans
- Middle Aged
- Neoplasm Metastasis
- "Neoplasm Recurrence, Local/drug therapy, mortality"
- "Oligopeptides/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Thromboplastin/analysis
- "Uterine Cervical Neoplasms/drug therapy, mortality, pathology"
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Efficacy and safety of tisotumab vedotin in previously treated recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer (innovaTV 204/GOG-3023/ENGOT-cx6): a multicentre, open-label, single-arm, phase 2 study.
**Authors:** Coleman RL, Lorusso D, Gennigens C, González-Martín A, Randall L, Cibula D, Lund B, Woelber L, Pignata S, Forget F, Redondo A, Vindeløv SD, Chen M, Harris JR, Smith M, Nicacio LV, Teng MSL, Laenen A, Rangwala R, Manso L, Mirza M, Monk BJ, Vergote I, innovaTV 204/GOG-3023/ENGOT-cx6 Collaborators
**Journal:** Lancet Oncol (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00056-5](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00056-5)

## Content

1. Lancet Oncol. 2021 May;22(5):609-619. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00056-5. Epub
 2021 Apr 9.

Efficacy and safety of tisotumab vedotin in previously treated recurrent or 
metastatic cervical cancer (innovaTV 204/GOG-3023/ENGOT-cx6): a multicentre, 
open-label, single-arm, phase 2 study.

Coleman RL(1), Lorusso D(2), Gennigens C(3), González-Martín A(4), Randall L(5), 
Cibula D(6), Lund B(7), Woelber L(8), Pignata S(9), Forget F(10), Redondo A(11), 
Vindeløv SD(12), Chen M(13), Harris JR(13), Smith M(13), Nicacio LV(14), Teng 
MSL(14), Laenen A(15), Rangwala R(13), Manso L(16), Mirza M(17), Monk BJ(18), 
Vergote I(15); innovaTV 204/GOG-3023/ENGOT-cx6 Collaborators.

Collaborators: Raspagliesi F, Melichar B, Gaba Garcia L, Jackson A, Henry S, 
Kral Z, Harter P, De Giorgi U, Bjurberg M, Gold M, O'Malley D, Honhon B, 
Vulsteke C, De Cuypere E, Denys H, Baurain JF, Zamagni C, Tenney M, Gordinier M, 
Bradley W, Schlumbrecht M, Spirtos N, Concin N, Mahner S, Scambia G, Leath C, 
Farias-Eisner R, Cohen J, Muller C, Bhatia S.

Author information:
(1)US Oncology Research, The Woodlands, TX, USA. Electronic address: 
rcoleman@gog.org.
(2)Multicentre Italian Trials in Ovarian Cancer and Gynaecological Malignancies 
Group and Scientific Directorate and Department of Women and Child Health, 
Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Agostino Gemelli IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Liège, 
Liège, Belgium.
(4)Grupo Español de Investigación en Cáncer de Ovario and Department of Medical 
Oncology, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Madrid, Spain.
(5)Massey Cancer Center, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA.
(6)Central and Eastern European Gynecologic Oncology Group and Department of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University and 
General University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(7)Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.
(8)Arbeitsgemeinschaft Gynäkologische Onkologie Study Group and University 
Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(9)Multicentre Italian Trials in Ovarian Cancer and Gynaecological Malignancies 
Group and Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori, "Fondazione G 
Pascale" IRCCS, Naples, Italy.
(10)Centre Hospitalier de l'Ardenne, Libramont, Belgium.
(11)Grupo Español de Investigación en Cáncer de Ovario and Hospital 
Universitario La Paz-IdiPAZ, Madrid, Spain.
(12)Genmab, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(13)Genmab US, Princeton, NJ, USA.
(14)Seagen, Bothell, WA, USA.
(15)Belgium and Luxembourg Gynaecological Oncology Group and University of 
Leuven, Leuven Cancer Institute, Leuven, Belgium.
(16)Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid, Spain.
(17)Rigshospitalet Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(18)Arizona Oncology (US Oncology Network), University of Arizona College of 
Medicine, Creighton University School of Medicine, Phoenix, AZ, USA.

BACKGROUND: Few effective second-line treatments exist for women with recurrent 
or metastatic cervical cancer. Accordingly, we aimed to evaluate the efficacy 
and safety of tisotumab vedotin, a tissue factor-directed antibody-drug 
conjugate, in this patient population.
METHODS: This multicentre, open-label, single-arm, phase 2 study was done across 
35 academic centres, hospitals, and community practices in Europe and the USA. 
The study included patients aged 18 years or older who had recurrent or 
metastatic squamous cell, adenocarcinoma, or adenosquamous cervical cancer; 
disease progression on or after doublet chemotherapy with bevacizumab (if 
eligible by local standards); who had received two or fewer previous systemic 
regimens for recurrent or metastatic disease; had measurable disease based on 
Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST; version 1.1); and had an 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 0 or 1. Patients 
received 2·0 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 200 mg) tisotumab vedotin intravenously 
once every 3 weeks until disease progression (determined by the independent 
review committee) or unacceptable toxicity. The primary endpoint was confirmed 
objective response rate based on RECIST (version 1.1), as assessed by the 
independent review committee. Activity and safety analyses were done in patients 
who received at least one dose of the drug. This study is ongoing with 
recruitment completed and is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03438396.
FINDINGS: 102 patients were enrolled between June 12, 2018, and April 11, 2019; 
101 patients received at least one dose of tisotumab vedotin. Median follow-up 
at the time of analysis was 10·0 months (IQR 6·1-13·0). The confirmed objective 
response rate was 24% (95% CI 16-33), with seven (7%) complete responses and 17 
(17%) partial responses. The most common treatment-related adverse events 
included alopecia (38 [38%] of 101 patients), epistaxis (30 [30%]), nausea (27 
[27%]), conjunctivitis (26 [26%]), fatigue (26 [26%]), and dry eye (23 [23%]). 
Grade 3 or worse treatment-related adverse events were reported in 28 (28%) 
patients and included neutropenia (three [3%] patients), fatigue (two [2%]), 
ulcerative keratitis (two [2%]), and peripheral neuropathies (two [2%] each with 
sensory, motor, sensorimotor, and neuropathy peripheral). Serious 
treatment-related adverse events occurred in 13 (13%) patients, the most common 
of which included peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy (two [2%] patients) and 
pyrexia (two [2%]). One death due to septic shock was considered by the 
investigator to be related to therapy. Three deaths unrelated to treatment were 
reported, including one case of ileus and two unknown causes.
INTERPRETATION: Tisotumab vedotin showed clinically meaningful and durable 
antitumour activity with a manageable and tolerable safety profile in women with 
previously treated recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer. Given the poor 
prognosis for this patient population and the low activity of current therapies 
in this setting, tisotumab vedotin, if approved, would represent a new treatment 
for women with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer.
FUNDING: Genmab, Seagen, Gynaecologic Oncology Group, and European Network of 
Gynaecological Oncological Trial Groups.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00056-5
PMID: 33845034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests RLC has received 
funding for consulting from AstraZeneca, Merck, Tesaro, Medivation, Clovis, 
GamaMabs, Genmab, Roche, Janssen, Agenus, Regeneron, and OncoQuest, and grant 
support from AstraZeneca, Merck, Clovis, Genmab, Roche, and Janssen. DL reports 
advisory board membership for Roche, Tesaro/GlaxoSmithKline, Clovis, Merck, 
PharmaMar, ImmunoGen, Genmab, Amgen, and AstraZeneca; grant support from 
Tesaro/GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Roche, PharmaMar, and Clovis; consultancy for 
Clovis; travel support from Roche, PharmaMar, AstraZeneca, 
Tesaro/GlaxoSmithKline, AstraZeneca, and Amgen; and acting as principal 
investigator for registrational clinical trials for Roche, PharmaMar, Tesaro, 
Clovis, ImmunoGen, Genmab, AstraZeneca, and Merck. CG has received clinical 
trial institutional support from Genmab; is an advisory board member for Pfizer, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck Sharp & Dohme, AstraZeneca, Novartis, and Lilly; has 
received consultancy fees from GlaxoSmithKline and Roche; has received 
institutional grant support from Roche, PharmaMar, Merck Sharp & Dohme, and 
AstraZeneca; and has received travel support from Pfizer, PharmaMar, Ipsen, and 
Roche. AG-M has received consultancy fees or honoraria from AstraZeneca, Clovis, 
Genmab, ImmunoGen, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Amgen, Oncoinvent, Merck/Pfizer, Roche, 
Sotio, and Tesaro/GlaxoSmithKline, and institutional grant support from Roche 
and Tesaro/GlaxoSmithKline. LW has received honoraria from Genmab and Tesaro; 
travel support from Genmab, Tesaro, and medac; institutional grant support from 
Genmab and Roche; and fees for development of educational presentations from 
Roche, Pfizer, and medac. SP has received honoraria from Genmab, Roche, 
AstraZeneca, Merck Sharp & Dohme, GlaxoSmithKline, PharmaMar, Incyte, Pfizer, 
Merck, and Clovis, and research funding from Roche, AstraZeneca, Merck Sharp & 
Dohme, and Pfizer. FF has received institutional funding from Genmab for travel. 
AR has received consultancy fees from AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Roche, 
PharmaMar, Clovis, and Amgen; institutional grant support from Roche, PharmaMar, 
and Eisai; honoraria from AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Roche, PharmaMar, and 
Clovis; and travel support from Roche, AstraZeneca, and PharmaMar. SDV, MC, JRH, 
and MS are employees of and own stock in Genmab. LVN and MSLT are employees of 
and own stock in Seagen. RR is a former employee of and owns stock in Genmab. LM 
has received consultancy fees from Roche, Novartis, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, and 
GlaxoSmithKline, and institutional grant support from Tesaro. MM has received 
consultancy fees or honoraria from Genmab. BJM has received consultancy fees or 
honoraria from AbbVie, Advaxis, Agenus, Akeso Biopharma, Amgen, Aravive, 
AstraZeneca, Asymmetric Therapeutics, Boston Biomedical, ChemoID, Clovis, 
Deciphera, Eisai, Geistlich, Genmab, GOG Foundation, ImmunoGen, Immunomedics, 
Incyte, Iovance, Laekna Health Care, Merck, Mersana, Myriad, NuCana, OncoMed, 
OncoQuest, OncoSec, Perthera, Pfizer, Puma, Regeneron, Roche/Genentech, Seagen, 
Senti Biosciences, Starton Therapeutics, Takeda, Tesaro/GlaxoSmithKline, Vavotar 
Life Sciences, VBL, and Vigeo. IV has received institutional funding for the 
following: consultancy or honoraria from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Clovis Oncology, 
Carrick Therapeutics, Debiopharm, F Hoffmann-La Roche, Genmab, GlaxoSmithKline, 
ImmunoGen, Medical University of Vienna (Vienna, Austria), Millennium 
Pharmaceuticals, Merck Sharp & Dohme Belgium, Octimet Oncology, Oncoinvent, 
PharmaMar-Doctaforum Servicios SL, Roche, Sotio, Tesaro, Deciphera, and Verastem 
Oncology; institutional grant support from Amgen and Roche; institutional 
research support from Oncoinvent and Genmab; and institutional travel support 
from Amgen, AstraZeneca, Merck, Sharp & Dohme, Roche, and Tesaro. All other 
authors declare no competing interests.