---
reference_id: PMID:36507690
title: Glofitamab for Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma.
authors:
- Dickinson MJ
- Carlo-Stella C
- Morschhauser F
- Bachy E
- Corradini P
- Iacoboni G
- Khan C
- Wróbel T
- Offner F
- Trněný M
- Wu SJ
- Cartron G
- Hertzberg M
- Sureda A
- Perez-Callejo D
- Lundberg L
- Relf J
- Dixon M
- Clark E
- Humphrey K
- Hutchings M
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2206913
keywords:
- Humans
- "Cytokine Release Syndrome/chemically induced, prevention & control"
- "Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse/drug therapy, immunology"
- "Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin/drug therapy, immunology"
- "Neoplasm Recurrence, Local/drug therapy"
- "Antibodies, Bispecific/adverse effects, immunology, therapeutic use"
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Glofitamab for Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma.
**Authors:** Dickinson MJ, Carlo-Stella C, Morschhauser F, Bachy E, Corradini P, Iacoboni G, Khan C, Wróbel T, Offner F, Trněný M, Wu SJ, Cartron G, Hertzberg M, Sureda A, Perez-Callejo D, Lundberg L, Relf J, Dixon M, Clark E, Humphrey K, Hutchings M
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa2206913](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa2206913)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2022 Dec 15;387(24):2220-2231. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2206913. Epub 
2022 Dec 11.

Glofitamab for Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma.

Dickinson MJ(1), Carlo-Stella C(1), Morschhauser F(1), Bachy E(1), Corradini 
P(1), Iacoboni G(1), Khan C(1), Wróbel T(1), Offner F(1), Trněný M(1), Wu SJ(1), 
Cartron G(1), Hertzberg M(1), Sureda A(1), Perez-Callejo D(1), Lundberg L(1), 
Relf J(1), Dixon M(1), Clark E(1), Humphrey K(1), Hutchings M(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, Royal Melbourne Hospital, and the 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC (M.J.D.), and Prince of Wales Hospital 
and the University of New South Wales, Sydney (M. Hertzberg) - all in Australia; 
Humanitas University and Istituti di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico 
(IRCCS) Humanitas Research Hospital (C.C.-S.), and Università degli Studi di 
Milano and Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori (P.C.) - all in Milan; 
Université de Lille, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire (CHU) Lille, Unité 
Labellisée de Recherche 7365, Groupe de Recherche sur les Formes Injectables et 
les Technologies Associées, Lille (F.M.), Centre Hospitalier Lyon Sud, Lyon 
(E.B.), and CHU de Montpellier, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, 
Unité Mixte de Recherche 5535, Montpellier (G.C.) - all in France; Vall d'Hebron 
University Hospital (G.I.) and Institut Català d'Oncologia Hospitalet, Institut 
d'Investigació Biomèdica de Bellvitge (IDIBELL), Universitat de Barcelona (A.S.) 
- both in Barcelona; the Allegheny Health Network Cancer Institute, Pittsburgh 
(C.K.); Uniwersytet Medyczny we Wrocławiu, Wroclaw, Poland (T.W.); Universitair 
Ziekenhuis Gent, Ghent, Belgium (F.O.); the First Faculty of Medicine, Charles 
University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic (M.T.); National Taiwan University 
Hospital, Taipei (S.-J.W.); F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Basel, Switzerland (D.P.-C., 
L.L.); Roche Products, Welwyn Garden City, United Kingdom (J.R., M.D., E.C., 
K.H.); and Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen (M. Hutchings).

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2022 Dec 15;387(24):2285-2286. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe2212732.
    N Engl J Med. 2022 Dec 15;387(24):2287-2290. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe2208708.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2023 Feb;20(2):64. doi: 10.1038/s41571-022-00725-y.

BACKGROUND: The prognosis for patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is poor. Glofitamab is a bispecific antibody that 
recruits T cells to tumor cells.
METHODS: In the phase 2 part of a phase 1-2 study, we enrolled patients with 
relapsed or refractory DLBCL who had received at least two lines of therapy 
previously. Patients received pretreatment with obinutuzumab to mitigate 
cytokine release syndrome, followed by fixed-duration glofitamab monotherapy (12 
cycles total). The primary end point was complete response according to 
assessment by an independent review committee. Key secondary end points included 
duration of response, survival, and safety.
RESULTS: Of the 155 patients who were enrolled, 154 received at least one dose 
of any study treatment (obinutuzumab or glofitamab). At a median follow-up of 
12.6 months, 39% (95% confidence interval [CI], 32 to 48) of the patients had a 
complete response according to independent review. Results were consistent among 
the 52 patients who had previously received chimeric antigen receptor T-cell 
therapy (35% of whom had a complete response). The median time to a complete 
response was 42 days (95% CI, 42 to 44). The majority (78%) of complete 
responses were ongoing at 12 months. The 12-month progression-free survival was 
37% (95% CI, 28 to 46). Discontinuation of glofitamab due to adverse events 
occurred in 9% of the patients. The most common adverse event was cytokine 
release syndrome (in 63% of the patients). Adverse events of grade 3 or higher 
occurred in 62% of the patients, with grade 3 or higher cytokine release 
syndrome in 4% and grade 3 or higher neurologic events in 3%.
CONCLUSIONS: Glofitamab therapy was effective for DLBCL. More than half the 
patients had an adverse event of grade 3 or 4. (Funded by F. Hoffmann-La Roche; 
ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT03075696.).

Copyright © 2022 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2206913
PMID: 36507690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]