---
reference_id: PMID:42117361
title: Efficacy of Inebilizumab in N-MOmentum Trial Participants With or Without Prior Immunosuppressants.
authors:
- Cree BAC
- Suero B
- Walsh S
- Marignier R
- Lindsey JW
- Kim HJ
- She D
- Cimbora D
- Cavida D
- Paul F
journal: Ann Clin Transl Neurol
year: '2026'
doi: 10.1002/acn3.70426
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Efficacy of Inebilizumab in N-MOmentum Trial Participants With or Without Prior Immunosuppressants.
**Authors:** Cree BAC, Suero B, Walsh S, Marignier R, Lindsey JW, Kim HJ, She D, Cimbora D, Cavida D, Paul F
**Journal:** Ann Clin Transl Neurol (2026)
**DOI:** [10.1002/acn3.70426](https://doi.org/10.1002/acn3.70426)

## Content

1. Ann Clin Transl Neurol. 2026 May 12. doi: 10.1002/acn3.70426. Online ahead of 
print.

Efficacy of Inebilizumab in N-MOmentum Trial Participants With or Without Prior 
Immunosuppressants.

Cree BAC(1), Suero B(2), Walsh S(2), Marignier R(3), Lindsey JW(4), Kim HJ(5), 
She D(6), Cimbora D(6), Cavida D(6), Paul F(7).

Author information:
(1)UCSF Weill Institute for Neurosciences, Department of Neurology, University 
of California San Francisco, California, USA.
(2)Eversana, Burlington, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Service de Neurologie, Sclérose en Plaques, Pathologies de la Myéline et 
Neuroinflammation, Hôpital Neurologique Pierre Wertheimer, Hospices Civils de 
Lyon, Lyon, France.
(4)Division of Multiple Sclerosis and Neuroimmunology, University of Texas 
Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, Texas, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, Research Institute and Hospital of National Cancer 
Center, Goyang, Republic of Korea.
(6)Amgen Inc., California, USA.
(7)Experimental and Clinical Research Center, Max Delbrueck Center for Molecular 
Medicine and Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie 
Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität Zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany.

This post hoc analysis examined the impact of prior immunosuppressants on the 
long-term efficacy and safety of inebilizumab, a cluster of differentiation 19+ 
B-cell-depleting monoclonal antibody, in participants with 
aquaporin-4-seropositive neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder from the 
N-MOmentum trial (NTC02200770). Inebilizumab treatment resulted in a sustained 
low annualized attack rate relative to the pretrial annualized attack rate and a 
high probability of remaining attack-free for up to 4 years among participants 
with and without prior immunosuppressant use. Based on modeling data, 
inebilizumab had greater long-term efficacy than historical immunosuppressants. 
Inebilizumab was well tolerated regardless of prior immunosuppressant use.

© 2026 The Author(s). Annals of Clinical and Translational Neurology published 
by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/acn3.70426
PMID: 42117361