---
reference_id: PMID:24401022
title: Obinutuzumab plus chlorambucil in patients with CLL and coexisting conditions.
authors:
- Goede V
- Fischer K
- Busch R
- Engelke A
- Eichhorst B
- Wendtner CM
- Chagorova T
- de la Serna J
- Dilhuydy MS
- Illmer T
- Opat S
- Owen CJ
- Samoylova O
- Kreuzer KA
- Stilgenbauer S
- Döhner H
- Langerak AW
- Ritgen M
- Kneba M
- Asikanius E
- Humphrey K
- Wenger M
- Hallek M
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2014'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1313984
keywords:
- Adult
- Aged
- "Aged, 80 and over"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/administration & dosage, adverse effects"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Murine-Derived/administration & dosage"
- "Antigens, CD20/immunology"
- "Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Chlorambucil/administration & dosage, adverse effects"
- Comorbidity
- Disease-Free Survival
- Humans
- "Leukemia, Lymphocytic, Chronic, B-Cell/drug therapy"
- Middle Aged
- Remission Induction
- Rituximab
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Obinutuzumab plus chlorambucil in patients with CLL and coexisting conditions.
**Authors:** Goede V, Fischer K, Busch R, Engelke A, Eichhorst B, Wendtner CM, Chagorova T, de la Serna J, Dilhuydy MS, Illmer T, Opat S, Owen CJ, Samoylova O, Kreuzer KA, Stilgenbauer S, Döhner H, Langerak AW, Ritgen M, Kneba M, Asikanius E, Humphrey K, Wenger M, Hallek M
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2014)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa1313984](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1313984)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2014 Mar 20;370(12):1101-10. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1313984. Epub
2014  Jan 8.

Obinutuzumab plus chlorambucil in patients with CLL and coexisting conditions.

Goede V(1), Fischer K, Busch R, Engelke A, Eichhorst B, Wendtner CM, Chagorova 
T, de la Serna J, Dilhuydy MS, Illmer T, Opat S, Owen CJ, Samoylova O, Kreuzer 
KA, Stilgenbauer S, Döhner H, Langerak AW, Ritgen M, Kneba M, Asikanius E, 
Humphrey K, Wenger M, Hallek M.

Author information:
(1)From the German CLL Study Group, Department I of Internal Medicine, Center of 
Integrated Oncology Cologne-Bonn, University Hospital Cologne, Cologne (V.G., 
K.F., A.E., B.E., C.M.W., K.-A.K., M.H.), the Department for Geriatric Medicine 
and Research, St. Marien Hospital and University of Cologne, Cologne (V.G.), 
Institute of Medical Statistics and Epidemiology, Technical University Munich, 
Munich (R.B.), Klinikum Schwabing, Munich (C.M.W.), private oncology practice, 
Dresden (T.I.), Medical Department II, University of Schleswig-Holstein, City 
Hospital Kiel, Kiel (M.R., M.K.), the Department of Internal Medicine III, Ulm 
University, Ulm (S.S., H.D.), and Cluster of Excellence "Cellular Stress 
Responses in Aging-Associated Diseases" (CECAD), University of Cologne, Cologne 
(M.H.) - all in Germany; Penza Regional Oncology Dispensary, Penza (T.C.), and 
Regional Clinical Hospital N.A. Semashko, Nizhny Novgorod (O.S.) - both in 
Russia; Servicio De Hematologia, Hospital Universitario 12 De Octubre, Madrid 
(J.S.); Hôpital Haut Lévêque, Bordeaux, Pessac, France (M.-S.D.); the Department 
of Haematology, Monash Medical Centre, Clayton, Australia (S.O.); University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada (C.J.O.); the Department of Immunology, Erasmus 
Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the Netherlands (A.W.L.); F. Hoffmann-La 
Roche, Basel, Switzerland (E.A.); F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Welwyn, United Kingdom 
(K.H.); and Genentech, South San Francisco, CA (M.W.).

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2014 Mar 20;370(12):1160-2. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe1400599.
    N Engl J Med. 2014 Jun 12;370(24):2348-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1404855.
    N Engl J Med. 2014 Jun 12;370(24):2348. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1404855.

BACKGROUND: The monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody rituximab, combined with 
chemotherapeutic agents, has been shown to prolong overall survival in 
physically fit patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia 
(CLL) but not in those with coexisting conditions. We investigated the benefit 
of the type 2, glycoengineered antibody obinutuzumab (also known as GA101) as 
compared with that of rituximab, each combined with chlorambucil, in patients 
with previously untreated CLL and coexisting conditions.
METHODS: We randomly assigned 781 patients with previously untreated CLL and a 
score higher than 6 on the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale (CIRS) (range, 0 to 
56, with higher scores indicating worse health status) or an estimated 
creatinine clearance of 30 to 69 ml per minute to receive chlorambucil, 
obinutuzumab plus chlorambucil, or rituximab plus chlorambucil. The primary end 
point was investigator-assessed progression-free survival.
RESULTS: The patients had a median age of 73 years, creatinine clearance of 62 
ml per minute, and CIRS score of 8 at baseline. Treatment with 
obinutuzumab-chlorambucil or rituximab-chlorambucil, as compared with 
chlorambucil monotherapy, increased response rates and prolonged 
progression-free survival (median progression-free survival, 26.7 months with 
obinutuzumab-chlorambucil vs. 11.1 months with chlorambucil alone; hazard ratio 
for progression or death, 0.18; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.13 to 0.24; 
P<0.001; and 16.3 months with rituximab-chlorambucil vs. 11.1 months with 
chlorambucil alone; hazard ratio, 0.44; 95% CI, 0.34 to 0.57; P<0.001). 
Treatment with obinutuzumab-chlorambucil, as compared with chlorambucil alone, 
prolonged overall survival (hazard ratio for death, 0.41; 95% CI, 0.23 to 0.74; 
P=0.002). Treatment with obinutuzumab-chlorambucil, as compared with 
rituximab-chlorambucil, resulted in prolongation of progression-free survival 
(hazard ratio, 0.39; 95% CI, 0.31 to 0.49; P<0.001) and higher rates of complete 
response (20.7% vs. 7.0%) and molecular response. Infusion-related reactions and 
neutropenia were more common with obinutuzumab-chlorambucil than with 
rituximab-chlorambucil, but the risk of infection was not increased.
CONCLUSIONS: Combining an anti-CD20 antibody with chemotherapy improved outcomes 
in patients with CLL and coexisting conditions. In this patient population, 
obinutuzumab was superior to rituximab when each was combined with chlorambucil. 
(Funded by F. Hoffmann-La Roche; ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01010061.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1313984
PMID: 24401022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]