---
reference_id: PMID:32813947
title: Evinacumab for Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia.
authors:
- Raal FJ
- Rosenson RS
- Reeskamp LF
- Hovingh GK
- Kastelein JJP
- Rubba P
- Ali S
- Banerjee P
- Chan KC
- Gipe DA
- Khilla N
- Pordy R
- Weinreich DM
- Yancopoulos GD
- Zhang Y
- Gaudet D
- ELIPSE HoFH Investigators
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2004215
keywords:
- Adolescent
- Adult
- Aged
- Angiopoietin-Like Protein 3
- "Angiopoietin-like Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/adverse effects, blood, therapeutic use"
- "Anticholesteremic Agents/adverse effects, blood, therapeutic use"
- Child
- "Cholesterol, LDL/blood"
- Double-Blind Method
- Female
- Homozygote
- Humans
- "Hyperlipoproteinemia Type II/blood, drug therapy, genetics"
- "Infusions, Intravenous"
- Least-Squares Analysis
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Mutation
- "Receptors, LDL/metabolism"
- Young Adult
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Evinacumab for Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia.
**Authors:** Raal FJ, Rosenson RS, Reeskamp LF, Hovingh GK, Kastelein JJP, Rubba P, Ali S, Banerjee P, Chan KC, Gipe DA, Khilla N, Pordy R, Weinreich DM, Yancopoulos GD, Zhang Y, Gaudet D, ELIPSE HoFH Investigators
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa2004215](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa2004215)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2020 Aug 20;383(8):711-720. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2004215.

Evinacumab for Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia.

Raal FJ(1), Rosenson RS(1), Reeskamp LF(1), Hovingh GK(1), Kastelein JJP(1), 
Rubba P(1), Ali S(1), Banerjee P(1), Chan KC(1), Gipe DA(1), Khilla N(1), Pordy 
R(1), Weinreich DM(1), Yancopoulos GD(1), Zhang Y(1), Gaudet D(1); ELIPSE HoFH 
Investigators.

Collaborators: Watts G, Deeba F, Sullivan D, Bonnitcha PD, Min SS, Nanayakkara 
NJ, Ebenbichler C, Tschoner A, Engler C, Gaudet D, Roy N, Blackburn D, Bergeron 
J, Villeneuve H, Saheb S, Gallo A, Beliard S, Dussol B, Morange S, Poullin P, 
Valero R, Milionis C, Filippas-Ntekouan S, Klouras E, Kolovou G, Hatzigeorgiou 
G, Rammos S, Rubba P, Iannuzzo G, Harada-Shiba M, Son C, Makino H, Hosoda K, 
Matsuki K, Kohmo K, Matsubara M, Ogura M, Noguchio M, Matsuo M, Koezuka R, 
Tamanaha T, Tomita T, Ohata Y, Otsubo Y, Koyanagi N, Kawashiri M, Tada H, Nohara 
A, Nomura A, Okada H, Fujii N, Hayashi D, Yonemoto S, Fukuda S, Yanagi K, Ryo M, 
Koseki M, Nishida M, Okada T, Stroes E, Reeskamp L, Stols-Goncalves D, Hamulyak 
E, Liem AH, Akkerhuis JM, Nierop PR, van Dalen BM, van de Poll SWE, van 
Miltenburg-van Zijl AJM, Veerhoek MJ, Raal F, Amrat Bhana S, Mitchenko O, 
Romanov V, Chulaevska I, Rudenko L, Beregova O, Vakaliuk I, Drapchak I, Tymochko 
N, Isayeva A, Buriakovska O, Vovchenko M, Tseluyko V, Matviychuk N, Yakovleva L, 
Duell P, Barton Purnell J, Rosenson R, Smith D, Halloran T, Gottlieb R, 
McCullough PA, Rosol ZP, Lee AY, Barbin CM, Baum SJ, Mendelson R, Wright M, 
Hemphill L, Fahed A, Turner T, Ellard A.

Author information:
(1)From the Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Johannesburg (F.J.R.); the Cardiometabolics Unit, Zena and Michael A. Wiener 
Cardiovascular Institute, Marie-Josee and Henry R. Kravis Center for 
Cardiovascular Health, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York 
(R.S.R.), and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Tarrytown (S.A., P.B, K.-C.C., D.A.G., 
N.K., R.P., D.M.W. G.D.Y., Y.Z.) - both in New York; the Department of Vascular 
Medicine, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam (L.F.R., G.K.H., J.J.P.K.); the 
Department of Internal Medicine and Surgery, Federico II University, Naples, 
Italy (P.R.); and the Clinical Lipidology and Rare Lipid Disorders Unit, 
Department of Medicine, Université de Montréal Community Gene Medicine Center, 
Lipid Clinic Chicoutimi Hospital and ECOGENE-21 Clinical and Translational 
Research Center, Chicoutimi, QC, Canada (D.G.).

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2020 Aug 20;383(8):775-776. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe2023520.
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2020 Nov;17(11):678. doi: 10.1038/s41569-020-00441-z.
    N Engl J Med. 2021 Feb 11;384(6):e17. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc2033612.
    N Engl J Med. 2021 Feb 11;384(6):e17. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc2033612.
    N Engl J Med. 2021 Feb 11;384(6):e17. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc2033612.

BACKGROUND: Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia is characterized by 
premature cardiovascular disease caused by markedly elevated levels of 
low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. This disorder is associated with 
genetic variants that result in virtually absent (null-null) or impaired 
(non-null) LDL-receptor activity. Loss-of-function variants in the gene encoding 
angiopoietin-like 3 (ANGPTL3) are associated with hypolipidemia and protection 
against atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. Evinacumab, a monoclonal 
antibody against ANGPTL3, has shown potential benefit in patients with 
homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia.
METHODS: In this double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial, we randomly 
assigned in a 2:1 ratio 65 patients with homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia who were receiving stable lipid-lowering therapy to receive 
an intravenous infusion of evinacumab (at a dose of 15 mg per kilogram of body 
weight) every 4 weeks or placebo. The primary outcome was the percent change 
from baseline in the LDL cholesterol level at week 24.
RESULTS: The mean baseline LDL cholesterol level in the two groups was 255.1 mg 
per deciliter, despite the receipt of maximum doses of background lipid-lowering 
therapy. At week 24, patients in the evinacumab group had a relative reduction 
from baseline in the LDL cholesterol level of 47.1%, as compared with an 
increase of 1.9% in the placebo group, for a between-group least-squares mean 
difference of -49.0 percentage points (95% confidence interval [CI], -65.0 to 
-33.1; P<0.001); the between-group least-squares mean absolute difference in the 
LDL cholesterol level was -132.1 mg per deciliter (95% CI, -175.3 to -88.9; 
P<0.001). The LDL cholesterol level was lower in the evinacumab group than in 
the placebo group in patients with null-null variants (-43.4% vs. +16.2%) and in 
those with non-null variants (-49.1% vs. -3.8%). Adverse events were similar in 
the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia receiving 
maximum doses of lipid-lowering therapy, the reduction from baseline in the LDL 
cholesterol level in the evinacumab group, as compared with the small increase 
in the placebo group, resulted in a between-group difference of 49.0 percentage 
points at 24 weeks. (Funded by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals; ELIPSE HoFH 
ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT03399786.).

Copyright © 2020 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2004215
PMID: 32813947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]