---
reference_id: PMID:35320644
title: Trastuzumab Deruxtecan versus Trastuzumab Emtansine for Breast Cancer.
authors:
- Cortés J
- Kim SB
- Chung WP
- Im SA
- Park YH
- Hegg R
- Kim MH
- Tseng LM
- Petry V
- Chung CF
- Iwata H
- Hamilton E
- Curigliano G
- Xu B
- Huang CS
- Kim JH
- Chiu JWY
- Pedrini JL
- Lee C
- Liu Y
- Cathcart J
- Bako E
- Verma S
- Hurvitz SA
- DESTINY-Breast03 Trial Investigators
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2115022
keywords:
- "Ado-Trastuzumab Emtansine/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Adult
- Aged
- "Aged, 80 and over"
- "Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Breast Neoplasms/drug therapy, mortality, pathology"
- "Camptothecin/adverse effects, analogs & derivatives, therapeutic use"
- Female
- Humans
- "Immunoconjugates/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Kaplan-Meier Estimate
- "Lung Diseases, Interstitial/chemically induced"
- Middle Aged
- Pneumonia/chemically induced
- Progression-Free Survival
- "Erb-b2 Receptor Tyrosine Kinases/antagonists & inhibitors, metabolism"
- "Trastuzumab/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Trastuzumab Deruxtecan versus Trastuzumab Emtansine for Breast Cancer.
**Authors:** Cortés J, Kim SB, Chung WP, Im SA, Park YH, Hegg R, Kim MH, Tseng LM, Petry V, Chung CF, Iwata H, Hamilton E, Curigliano G, Xu B, Huang CS, Kim JH, Chiu JWY, Pedrini JL, Lee C, Liu Y, Cathcart J, Bako E, Verma S, Hurvitz SA, DESTINY-Breast03 Trial Investigators
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa2115022](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa2115022)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2022 Mar 24;386(12):1143-1154. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2115022.

Trastuzumab Deruxtecan versus Trastuzumab Emtansine for Breast Cancer.

Cortés J(1), Kim SB(1), Chung WP(1), Im SA(1), Park YH(1), Hegg R(1), Kim MH(1), 
Tseng LM(1), Petry V(1), Chung CF(1), Iwata H(1), Hamilton E(1), Curigliano 
G(1), Xu B(1), Huang CS(1), Kim JH(1), Chiu JWY(1), Pedrini JL(1), Lee C(1), Liu 
Y(1), Cathcart J(1), Bako E(1), Verma S(1), Hurvitz SA(1); DESTINY-Breast03 
Trial Investigators.

Collaborators: Chua S, Ganju V, Loi S, Cuff K, Tsoi D, Srivastav R, Wildiers H, 
Waele S, Taylor D, Fontaine C, Gombos A, Altintas S, Lima JP, Santi P, Borges G, 
Buscacio de Sousa G, Pedrini JL, Batista R, Hegg R, Petry Helena V, Henning JW, 
Pezo R, Xu B, Hu X, Zhang Q, Sun T, Yao H, Shi Y, Li W, Wang X, Tong Z, Wang X, 
Zhang Y, Luo T, Teixeira L, Jacot W, Baciuchka-Palmaro M, Bonnin N, Bourgeois H, 
Ladoire S, Petit T, Pierga JY, André F, Perrin C, Le Roy A, Meynard G, Grenier 
J, Hardy Bessard AC, Bachelot T, Frenel JS, Levy C, Gligorov J, Augereau P, 
Quenel-Tueux N, Lauridant G, Fasching P, Fehm T, Forstbauer H, Harbeck N, Ettl 
J, Kolberg HC, Rody A, Hanusch C, Yeo W, Chiu JWY, Airoldi M, Cazzaniga ME, 
Bianchini G, Santoro A, Colleoni M, Piacentini F, Ardizzoia A, Adamo V, 
Frassoldati A, Zamagni C, Musolino A, Zambelli A, Pedrazzoli P, Puglisi F, Del 
Mastro L, De Laurentiis M, Yonemori K, Ito Y, Iwata H, Yamashita T, Aogi K, 
Tokunaga E, Watanabe J, Takahashi M, Masuda N, Kaneko K, Nakayama T, Inoue K, 
Yamamoto Y, Otani S, Doihara H, Tsurutani J, Shimomura A, Im SA, Park YH, Kim 
JH, Kim SB, Kim MH, Lee KS, Kang SY, Salvador Bofill F, Delgado Mingorance JI, 
Perez Garcia JM, Nogales Fernandez E, Saura Manich C, Fernandez Abad M, Gil I 
Gil M, Estevez LG, Carcia Saenz JA, Bermejo Perez MJ, Prat A, Lopez-Tarruella 
Cobo S, Cruz Jurado J, Antolin Novoa S, Lopez R, Cubedo Cervera R, Ciruelos Gil 
EM, Liu LC, Chung CF, Chung WP, Huang CS, Tseng LM, Madhusudan S, Patel N, 
Schmid P, Hall P, Roylance R, Stephens P, Urquhart G, Crook T, Wardley A, 
Kristeleit H, Krop I, Raymond J, Fisher J, Murthy R, Marathe O, Chu D, Brufsky 
A, Charif M, Sinha R, Rugo H, Haley B, Bane C, Yen C, Belur A, Hargis J, 
Williams N, Hurvitz S, Tandra P, Melin S, Gallagher C, Graff S, Baar J, Hamilton 
E, Kaklamani V, Daniel B, Rexer B, Albain K, Niravath P, Huston A, Kayali F, 
Wright G.

Author information:
(1)From the International Breast Cancer Center, Quirónsalud Group, Barcelona, 
the Scientific Department, Medica Scientia Innovation Research, Valencia, and 
the Department of Medicine, Faculty of Biomedical and Health Sciences, 
Universidad Europea de Madrid, Madrid - all in Spain (J. Cortés); Asan Medical 
Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Ulsan (S.-B.K.), Seoul National 
University Hospital, Cancer Research Institute (S.-A.I.), and Seoul National 
University Bundang Hospital (J.H.K.), Seoul National University College of 
Medicine, and Samsung Medical Center (Y.H.P.), Seoul, and Severance Hospital, 
Yonsei University, Yonsei (M.H.K.) - all in South Korea; the Department of 
Oncology, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of Medicine, National 
Cheng Kung University, Tainan (W.-P.C.), and the Department of Surgery, Taipei 
Veterans General Hospital, College of Medicine, National Yang-Ming Chiao Tung 
University (L.-M.T.), Koo Foundation Sun Yat-Sen Cancer Center (C.-F.C.), and 
National Taiwan University Hospital and National Taiwan University College of 
Medicine (C.-S.H.), Taipei - all in Taiwan; Clínica de Pesquisas e Centro de 
Estudos em Oncologia Ginecológica e Mamária (R.H.) and Instituto do Câncer do 
Estado de São Paulo Octavio Frias de Oliveira (V.P.), São Paulo, and Hospital 
Nossa Senhora da Conceição, Porto Alegre (J.L.P.) - all in Brazil; Aichi Cancer 
Center Hospital, Aichi, Japan (H.I.); Sarah Cannon Research Institute, Tennessee 
Oncology, Nashville (E.H.); the Department of Oncology and Hematology-Oncology, 
University of Milan, and the Division of Early Drug Development, European 
Institute of Oncology, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico - 
both in Milan (G.C.); the Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing (B.X.); the University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong (J.W.Y.C.); Daiichi Sankyo, Basking Ridge, NJ (C.L., Y.L., J. 
Cathcart, E.B.); AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, MD (S.V.); and the David Geffen 
School of Medicine and Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of 
California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles (S.A.H.).

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2022 May;19(5):283. doi: 10.1038/s41571-022-00629-x.
    N Engl J Med. 2022 Jun 16;386(24):2346-2347. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc2205309.
    Cell Rep Med. 2022 Jun 21;3(6):100668. doi: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2022.100668.

BACKGROUND: Trastuzumab emtansine is the current standard treatment for patients 
with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive metastatic breast 
cancer whose disease progresses after treatment with a combination of anti-HER2 
antibodies and a taxane.
METHODS: We conducted a phase 3, multicenter, open-label, randomized trial to 
compare the efficacy and safety of trastuzumab deruxtecan (a HER2 antibody-drug 
conjugate) with those of trastuzumab emtansine in patients with HER2-positive 
metastatic breast cancer previously treated with trastuzumab and a taxane. The 
primary end point was progression-free survival (as determined by blinded 
independent central review); secondary end points included overall survival, 
objective response, and safety.
RESULTS: Among 524 randomly assigned patients, the percentage of those who were 
alive without disease progression at 12 months was 75.8% (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 69.8 to 80.7) with trastuzumab deruxtecan and 34.1% (95% CI, 27.7 
to 40.5) with trastuzumab emtansine (hazard ratio for progression or death from 
any cause, 0.28; 95% CI, 0.22 to 0.37; P<0.001). The percentage of patients who 
were alive at 12 months was 94.1% (95% CI, 90.3 to 96.4) with trastuzumab 
deruxtecan and 85.9% (95% CI, 80.9 to 89.7) with trastuzumab emtansine (hazard 
ratio for death, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.36 to 0.86; prespecified significance boundary 
not reached). An overall response (a complete or partial response) occurred in 
79.7% (95% CI, 74.3 to 84.4) of the patients who received trastuzumab deruxtecan 
and in 34.2% (95% CI, 28.5 to 40.3) of those who received trastuzumab emtansine. 
The incidence of drug-related adverse events of any grade was 98.1% with 
trastuzumab deruxtecan and 86.6% with trastuzumab emtansine, and the incidence 
of drug-related adverse events of grade 3 or 4 was 45.1% and 39.8%, 
respectively. Adjudicated drug-related interstitial lung disease or pneumonitis 
occurred in 10.5% of the patients in the trastuzumab deruxtecan group and in 
1.9% of those in the trastuzumab emtansine group; none of these events were of 
grade 4 or 5.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer 
previously treated with trastuzumab and a taxane, the risk of disease 
progression or death was lower among those who received trastuzumab deruxtecan 
than among those who received trastuzumab emtansine. Treatment with trastuzumab 
deruxtecan was associated with interstitial lung disease and pneumonitis. 
(Funded by Daiichi Sankyo and AstraZeneca; DESTINY-Breast03 ClinicalTrials.gov 
number, NCT03529110.).

Copyright © 2022 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2115022
PMID: 35320644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]