---
reference_id: PMID:25736990
title: "Reslizumab for inadequately controlled asthma with elevated blood eosinophil counts: results from two multicentre, parallel, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trials."
authors:
- Castro M
- Zangrilli J
- Wechsler ME
- Bateman ED
- Brusselle GG
- Bardin P
- Murphy K
- Maspero JF
- "O'Brien C"
- Korn S
journal: Lancet Respir Med
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00042-9
keywords:
- Adult
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/therapeutic use"
- Asia
- "Asthma/drug therapy, immunology"
- Australia
- Double-Blind Method
- Eosinophils/immunology
- Europe
- Female
- Humans
- Male
- Middle Aged
- North America
- South Africa
- South America
- Treatment Outcome
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Reslizumab for inadequately controlled asthma with elevated blood eosinophil counts: results from two multicentre, parallel, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trials.
**Authors:** Castro M, Zangrilli J, Wechsler ME, Bateman ED, Brusselle GG, Bardin P, Murphy K, Maspero JF, O'Brien C, Korn S
**Journal:** Lancet Respir Med (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00042-9](https://doi.org/10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00042-9)

## Content

1. Lancet Respir Med. 2015 May;3(5):355-66. doi: 10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00042-9. 
Epub 2015 Feb 23.

Reslizumab for inadequately controlled asthma with elevated blood eosinophil 
counts: results from two multicentre, parallel, double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled, phase 3 trials.

Castro M(1), Zangrilli J(2), Wechsler ME(3), Bateman ED(4), Brusselle GG(5), 
Bardin P(6), Murphy K(7), Maspero JF(8), O'Brien C(2), Korn S(9).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Washington University 
School of Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA. Electronic address: 
castrom@dom.wustl.edu.
(2)Teva Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, National Jewish Health, Denver, CO, USA.
(4)Division of Pulmonology, Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town, 
Cape Town, South Africa.
(5)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Ghent University Hospital, Ghent, 
Belgium.
(6)Monash Lung and Sleep, Monash Medical Centre and University, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.
(7)Boys Town National Research Hospital, Omaha, NE, USA.
(8)Allergy and Respiratory Research Unit, Fundación Cidea, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.
(9)Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Center, Johannes 
Gutenberg University of Mainz, Mainz, Germany.

Erratum in
    Lancet Respir Med. 2015 Apr;3(4):e15. doi: 10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00119-8.
    Lancet Respir Med. 2016 Oct;4(10):e50. doi: 10.1016/S2213-2600(16)30278-8.

Comment in
    Lancet Respir Med. 2015 May;3(5):330-1. doi: 10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00057-0.

BACKGROUND: Elevated numbers of blood eosinophils are a risk factor for asthma 
exacerbations. Reslizumab is a humanised anti-interleukin 5 monoclonal antibody 
that disrupts eosinophil maturation and promotes programmed cell death. We aimed 
to assess the efficacy and safety of reslizumab in patients with inadequately 
controlled, moderate-to-severe asthma.
METHODS: We did two duplicate, multicentre, double-blind, parallel-group, 
randomised, placebo-controlled phase 3 trials. Both trials enrolled patients 
with asthma aged 12-75 years (from 128 clinical research centres in study 1 and 
104 centres in study 2) from Asia, Australia, North America, South America, 
South Africa, and Europe, whose asthma was inadequately controlled by 
medium-to-high doses of inhaled corticosteroid based therapy and who had blood 
eosinophils of 400 cells per μL or higher and one or more exacerbations in the 
previous year. Patients were randomly assigned (1:1) to receive either 
intravenous reslizumab (3·0 mg/kg) or placebo every 4 weeks for 1 year by 
computerised central randomisation. Patients and investigators were masked to 
treatment assignment during the study. Each patient received a specific volume 
of study drug (reslizumab or matching placebo) on the basis of the patient's 
body weight and randomly assigned treatment group. Additionally, the sponsor's 
clinical personnel involved in the study were masked to the study drug identity 
until the database was locked for analysis and the treatment assignment 
revealed. The primary outcome was the annual frequency of clinical asthma 
exacerbations and was analysed by intention to treat. We assessed safety 
outcomes in the patients who had received one or more dose of the drug. The 
trials have been completed and are registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, numbers 
NCT01287039 (study 1) and NCT01285323 (study 2).
FINDINGS: Study 1 was done between April 12, 2011, and March 3, 2014 and study 2 
between March 22, 2011, and April 9, 2014. Of 2597 patients screened, 953 were 
randomly assigned to receive either reslizumab (n=477 [245 in study 1 and 232 in 
study 2]) or placebo (n=476 [244 and 232]). In both studies, patients receiving 
reslizumab had a significant reduction in the frequency of asthma exacerbations 
(study 1: rate ratio [RR] 0·50 [95% CI 0·37-0·67]; study 2: 0·41 [0·28-0·59]; 
both p<0·0001) compared with those receiving placebo. Common adverse events on 
reslizumab were similar to placebo. The most common adverse events were 
worsening asthma symptoms (127 [52%] for placebo and 97 [40%] for reslizumab in 
study 1; 119 [51%] for placebo and 67 [29%] for reslizumab for study 2), upper 
respiratory tract infections (32 [13%] and 39 [16%]; 16 [7%] and eight [3%]), 
and nasopharyngitis (33 [14%] and 28 [11%]; 56 [24%] and 45 [19%]). Two patients 
in the reslizumab group had anaphylactic reactions; both responded to standard 
treatment at the study centre and resolved, and the patients were withdrawn from 
the study.
INTERPRETATION: These results support the use of reslizumab in patients with 
asthma and elevated blood eosinophil counts who are inadequately controlled on 
inhaled corticosteroid-based therapy.
FUNDING: Teva Branded Pharmaceutical Products R&D.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S2213-2600(15)00042-9
PMID: 25736990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]