---
reference_id: PMID:20879881
title: "Anti-GD2 antibody with GM-CSF, interleukin-2, and isotretinoin for neuroblastoma."
authors:
- Yu AL
- Gilman AL
- Ozkaynak MF
- London WB
- Kreissman SG
- Chen HX
- Smith M
- Anderson B
- Villablanca JG
- Matthay KK
- Shimada H
- Grupp SA
- Seeger R
- Reynolds CP
- Buxton A
- Reisfeld RA
- Gillies SD
- Cohn SL
- Maris JM
- Sondel PM
- "Children's Oncology Group"
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2010'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa0911123
keywords:
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Antineoplastic Agents/therapeutic use
- Child
- "Child, Preschool"
- Combined Modality Therapy
- "Drug Therapy, Combination"
- Gangliosides/immunology
- Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor/therapeutic use
- Humans
- Immunotherapy/adverse effects
- Infant
- Intention to Treat Analysis
- Interleukin-2/therapeutic use
- Isotretinoin/therapeutic use
- "Neuroblastoma/drug therapy, mortality, therapy"
- Stem Cell Transplantation
- Survival Analysis
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Anti-GD2 antibody with GM-CSF, interleukin-2, and isotretinoin for neuroblastoma.
**Authors:** Yu AL, Gilman AL, Ozkaynak MF, London WB, Kreissman SG, Chen HX, Smith M, Anderson B, Villablanca JG, Matthay KK, Shimada H, Grupp SA, Seeger R, Reynolds CP, Buxton A, Reisfeld RA, Gillies SD, Cohn SL, Maris JM, Sondel PM, Children's Oncology Group
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2010)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa0911123](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa0911123)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2010 Sep 30;363(14):1324-34. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa0911123.

Anti-GD2 antibody with GM-CSF, interleukin-2, and isotretinoin for 
neuroblastoma.

Yu AL(1), Gilman AL, Ozkaynak MF, London WB, Kreissman SG, Chen HX, Smith M, 
Anderson B, Villablanca JG, Matthay KK, Shimada H, Grupp SA, Seeger R, Reynolds 
CP, Buxton A, Reisfeld RA, Gillies SD, Cohn SL, Maris JM, Sondel PM; Children's 
Oncology Group.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Diego, and Moores Cancer Center, San Diego, CA 
92103-8447, USA. aliceyu@ucsd.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2011 Jan 20;364(3):289; author reply 289-90. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc1012160.

BACKGROUND: Preclinical and preliminary clinical data indicate that ch14.18, a 
monoclonal antibody against the tumor-associated disialoganglioside GD2, has 
activity against neuroblastoma and that such activity is enhanced when ch14.18 
is combined with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) or 
interleukin-2. We conducted a study to determine whether adding ch14.18, GM-CSF, 
and interleukin-2 to standard isotretinoin therapy after intensive multimodal 
therapy would improve outcomes in high-risk neuroblastoma.
METHODS: Patients with high-risk neuroblastoma who had a response to induction 
therapy and stem-cell transplantation were randomly assigned, in a 1:1 ratio, to 
receive standard therapy (six cycles of isotretinoin) or immunotherapy (six 
cycles of isotretinoin and five concomitant cycles of ch14.18 in combination 
with alternating GM-CSF and interleukin-2). Event-free survival and overall 
survival were compared between the immunotherapy group and the standard-therapy 
group, on an intention-to-treat basis.
RESULTS: A total of 226 eligible patients were randomly assigned to a treatment 
group. In the immunotherapy group, a total of 52% of patients had pain of grade 
3, 4, or 5, and 23% and 25% of patients had capillary leak syndrome and 
hypersensitivity reactions, respectively. With 61% of the number of expected 
events observed, the study met the criteria for early stopping owing to 
efficacy. The median duration of follow-up was 2.1 years. Immunotherapy was 
superior to standard therapy with regard to rates of event-free survival (66±5% 
vs. 46±5% at 2 years, P=0.01) and overall survival (86±4% vs. 75±5% at 2 years, 
P=0.02 without adjustment for interim analyses).
CONCLUSIONS: Immunotherapy with ch14.18, GM-CSF, and interleukin-2 was 
associated with a significantly improved outcome as compared with standard 
therapy in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma. (Funded by the National 
Institutes of Health and the Food and Drug Administration; ClinicalTrials.gov 
number, NCT00026312.)

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa0911123
PMCID: PMC3086629
PMID: 20879881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]