---
reference_id: PMID:33549192
title: "Bimekizumab efficacy and safety in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (BE READY): a multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised withdrawal phase 3 trial."
authors:
- Gordon KB
- Foley P
- Krueger JG
- Pinter A
- Reich K
- Vender R
- Vanvoorden V
- Madden C
- White K
- Cioffi C
- Blauvelt A
journal: Lancet
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(21)00126-4
keywords:
- Adult
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/therapeutic use"
- Double-Blind Method
- Drug Administration Schedule
- Female
- Humans
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Psoriasis/drug therapy
- Quality of Life
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Bimekizumab efficacy and safety in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (BE READY): a multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised withdrawal phase 3 trial.
**Authors:** Gordon KB, Foley P, Krueger JG, Pinter A, Reich K, Vender R, Vanvoorden V, Madden C, White K, Cioffi C, Blauvelt A
**Journal:** Lancet (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1016/S0140-6736(21)00126-4](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(21)00126-4)

## Content

1. Lancet. 2021 Feb 6;397(10273):475-486. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(21)00126-4.

Bimekizumab efficacy and safety in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (BE 
READY): a multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised withdrawal 
phase 3 trial.

Gordon KB(1), Foley P(2), Krueger JG(3), Pinter A(4), Reich K(5), Vender R(6), 
Vanvoorden V(7), Madden C(8), White K(9), Cioffi C(8), Blauvelt A(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA. 
Electronic address: kegordon@mcw.edu.
(2)Skin Health Institute, Carlton, and The University of Melbourne, Parkville, 
VIC, Australia.
(3)The Rockefeller University, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Frankfurt am Main, Frankfurt 
am Main, Germany.
(5)Center for Translational Research in Inflammatory Skin Diseases, Institute 
for Health Services Research in Dermatology and Nursing, University Medical 
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(6)Division of Dermatology, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada.
(7)UCB Pharma, Brussels, Belgium.
(8)UCB Pharma, Raleigh, NC, USA.
(9)UCB Pharma, Berkshire, UK.
(10)Oregon Medical Research Center, Portland, OR, USA.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2021 Mar 27;397(10280):1182. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(21)00669-3.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2021 Feb 6;397(10273):446-448. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(21)00269-5.

BACKGROUND: Bimekizumab is a monoclonal IgG1 antibody that selectively inhibits 
interleukin (IL)-17F in addition to IL-17A. This study investigated the efficacy 
and safety of bimekizumab in patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, 
the effects of treatment withdrawal, and two maintenance dosing schedules over 
56 weeks.
METHODS: BE READY was a phase 3, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trial done at 77 sites (hospitals, clinics, private doctor's 
practices, and dedicated clinical research centres) in nine countries across 
Asia, Australia, Europe, and North America. Adult patients aged 18 years or 
older with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis were stratified by region and 
previous biologic exposure, and randomly assigned (4:1) to receive bimekizumab 
320 mg every 4 weeks or placebo every 4 weeks by use of interactive response 
technology. Coprimary endpoints were the proportion of patients achieving 90% or 
greater improvement from baseline in the Psoriasis Area Severity Index (PASI90) 
and the proportion of patients achieving a score of 0 (clear) or 1 (almost 
clear) on the five-point Investigator's Global Assessment (IGA) scale at week 16 
(non-responder imputation). Bimekizumab-treated patients achieving PASI90 at 
week 16 were re-allocated (1:1:1) to receive bimekizumab 320 mg every 4 weeks, 
every 8 weeks, or placebo for weeks 16-56. Efficacy analyses were done in the 
intention-to-treat population; the safety analysis set comprised all patients 
who received at least one dose of study treatment. This trial is registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03410992), and is now completed.
FINDINGS: Between Feb 5, 2018, and Jan 7, 2020, 435 patients were randomly 
assigned to receive either bimekizumab 320 mg every 4 weeks (n=349) or placebo 
every 4 weeks (n=86). Coprimary endpoints were met: at week 16, 317 (91%) of 349 
patients receiving bimekizumab 320 mg every 4 weeks achieved PASI90, compared 
with one (1%) of 86 patients receiving placebo (risk difference 89·8 [95% CI 
86·1-93·4]; p<0·0001); and 323 (93%) of 349 patients receiving bimekizumab 320 
mg every 4 weeks achieved an IGA score of 0 or 1 versus one (1%) of 86 patients 
receiving placebo (risk difference 91·5 [95% CI 88·0-94·9]; p<0·0001). Responses 
were maintained through to week 56 with bimekizumab 320 mg every 8 weeks and 
every 4 weeks. Treatment-emergent adverse events in the initial treatment period 
(up to week 16) were reported in 213 (61%) of 349 patients receiving bimekizumab 
320 mg every 4 weeks and 35 (41%) of 86 patients receiving placebo every 4 
weeks. From week 16 to week 56, treatment-emergent adverse events were reported 
in 78 (74%) of 106 patients receiving bimekizumab 320 mg every 4 weeks, 77 (77%) 
of 100 patients receiving bimekizumab 320 mg every 8 weeks, and 72 (69%) of 105 
patients receiving placebo.
INTERPRETATION: Bimekizumab showed high levels of response, which were durable 
over 56 weeks, with both maintenance dosing schedules (every 4 weeks and every 8 
weeks). Moreover, bimekizumab was well tolerated, with no unexpected safety 
findings. Data presented here further support the therapeutic value of 
bimekizumab and inhibition of IL-17F in addition to IL-17A for patients with 
moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.
FUNDING: UCB Pharma.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(21)00126-4
PMID: 33549192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]