---
reference_id: PMID:31735560
title: "Isatuximab plus pomalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone versus pomalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone in patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (ICARIA-MM): a randomised, multicentre, open-label, phase 3 study."
authors:
- Attal M
- Richardson PG
- Rajkumar SV
- San-Miguel J
- Beksac M
- Spicka I
- Leleu X
- Schjesvold F
- Moreau P
- Dimopoulos MA
- Huang JS
- Minarik J
- Cavo M
- Prince HM
- Macé S
- Corzo KP
- Campana F
- Le-Guennec S
- Dubin F
- Anderson KC
- ICARIA-MM study group
journal: Lancet
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(19)32556-5
keywords:
- Aged
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/administration & dosage"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized"
- Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/therapeutic use
- Asia
- "Dexamethasone/administration & dosage"
- Europe
- Female
- Humans
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Multiple Myeloma/drug therapy
- "Neoplasm Recurrence, Local/drug therapy"
- North America
- Progression-Free Survival
- "Thalidomide/administration & dosage, analogs & derivatives"
- Treatment Outcome
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Isatuximab plus pomalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone versus pomalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone in patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (ICARIA-MM): a randomised, multicentre, open-label, phase 3 study.
**Authors:** Attal M, Richardson PG, Rajkumar SV, San-Miguel J, Beksac M, Spicka I, Leleu X, Schjesvold F, Moreau P, Dimopoulos MA, Huang JS, Minarik J, Cavo M, Prince HM, Macé S, Corzo KP, Campana F, Le-Guennec S, Dubin F, Anderson KC, ICARIA-MM study group
**Journal:** Lancet (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1016/S0140-6736(19)32556-5](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(19)32556-5)

## Content

1. Lancet. 2019 Dec 7;394(10214):2096-2107. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(19)32556-5. 
Epub 2019 Nov 14.

Isatuximab plus pomalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone versus pomalidomide and 
low-dose dexamethasone in patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma 
(ICARIA-MM): a randomised, multicentre, open-label, phase 3 study.

Attal M(1), Richardson PG(2), Rajkumar SV(3), San-Miguel J(4), Beksac M(5), 
Spicka I(6), Leleu X(7), Schjesvold F(8), Moreau P(9), Dimopoulos MA(10), Huang 
JS(11), Minarik J(12), Cavo M(13), Prince HM(14), Macé S(15), Corzo KP(16), 
Campana F(16), Le-Guennec S(15), Dubin F(15), Anderson KC(17); ICARIA-MM study 
group.

Collaborators: Attal M, Richardson PG, Rajkumar V, San-Miguel J, Beksac M, 
Spicka I, Leleu X, Schjesvold F, Moreau P, Dimopoulos MA, Huang JS, Minarik J, 
Cavo M, Prince HM, Macé S, Corzo KP, Campana F, Le-Guennec S, Dubin F, Anderson 
KC, Harrison S, Janowski W, Kerridge I, Spencer A, Delforge M, Fostier K, 
Vlummens P, Wu KL, Leblanc R, Pavic M, Sebag M, Hajek R, Maisnar V, Pour L, 
Gregersen H, Benbouker L, Caillot D, Escoffre-Barbe M, Facon T, Frenzel L, Hulin 
C, Karlin L, Kolb B, Pegourie B, Perrot A, Tiab M, Vincent L, Niederwieser D, 
Anagnostopoulos A, Delimpasi S, Kyrtsonis MC, Symeonidis A, Illes A, Mikala G, 
Nagy Z, Bringen S, Corradini P, Fabio C, Lemoli R, Liberati A, Nozzoli C, 
Zambello R, Iida S, Ikeda T, Iyama S, Matsumoto M, Shimazaki C, Sunami K, Suzuki 
K, Uchiyama M, Koh Y, Kim K, Lee JH, Min CK, Blacklock H, Goodman H, Neylon A, 
Simpson D, Grosicki S, Jurczyszyn A, Walter-Croneck A, Warzocha K, Araujo L, 
Moreira C, Doronin V, Mendeleeva L, Vorobyev V, Vranovsky A, Alegre A, Gironella 
M, Gonzalez Perez MS, Montes C, Ocio E, Rodriguez P, Hardling M, Lauri B, Wang 
MC, Yeh SP, Arat M, Demirkan F, Gulbas Z, Besisik SK, Karadogan I, Tuglular T, 
Unal A, Vural F, Sive J, Streetly M, Yong K, Tache J.

Author information:
(1)Institut Universitaire du Cancer Toulouse Oncopole, Toulouse, France. 
Electronic address: attal.michel@iuct-oncopole.fr.
(2)Jerome Lipper Multiple Myeloma Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
paul_richardson@dfci.harvard.edu.
(3)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN, USA.
(4)Clinical and Translational Medicine, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Navarra, 
CIMA, IDISNA, CIBER-ONC, Pamplona, Spain.
(5)Department of Hematology, Ankara University, Ankara, Turkey.
(6)1st Department of Medicine, Department of Hematology, First Faculty of 
Medicine Charles University and General Hospital in Prague, Prague, Czech 
Republic.
(7)Department of Haematology, CHU La Milétrie-Poitiers, Poitiers, France.
(8)Oslo Myeloma Center, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway; KG Jebsen Center 
for B cell malignancies, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(9)Hematology Department, CHU Nantes, Nantes, France.
(10)Department of Clinical Therapeutics, National and Kapodistrian University of 
Athens, Athens, Greece.
(11)Department of Hematology, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taiwan.
(12)Department of Hemato-Oncology, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Palacky 
University and University Hospital Olomouc, Olomouc, Czech Republic.
(13)Department of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine, Seràgnoli 
Institute of Hematology, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(14)Cancer Immunology and Molecular Oncology, Epworth Healthcare, University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(15)Sanofi Research And Development, Vitry-Sur-Seine, France.
(16)Sanofi-Genzyme Oncology, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(17)Jerome Lipper Multiple Myeloma Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2019 Dec 7;394(10214):2072. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(19)32944-7.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2019 Dec 7;394(10214):2045-2047. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(19)32684-4.

BACKGROUND: Isatuximab is a monoclonal antibody that binds a specific epitope on 
the human CD38 receptor and has antitumour activity via multiple mechanisms of 
action. In a previous phase 1b study, around 65% of patients with relapsed and 
refractory multiple myeloma achieved an overall response with a combination of 
isatuximab with pomalidomide and low-dose dexamethasone. The aim of this study 
was to determine the progression-free survival benefit of isatuximab plus 
pomalidomide and dexamethasone compared with pomalidomide and dexamethasone in 
patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma.
METHODS: We did a randomised, multicentre, open-label, phase 3 study at 102 
hospitals in 24 countries in Europe, North America, and the Asia-Pacific 
regions. Eligible participants were adult patients with relapsed and refractory 
multiple myeloma who had received at least two previous lines of treatment, 
including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor. Patients were excluded if 
they were refractory to previous treatment with an anti-CD38 monoclonal 
antibody. We randomly assigned patients (1:1) to either isatuximab 10 mg/kg plus 
pomalidomide 4 mg plus dexamethasone 40 mg (20 mg for patients aged ≥75 years), 
or pomalidomide 4 mg plus dexamethasone 40 mg. Randomisation was done using 
interactive response technology and stratified according to the number of 
previous lines of treatment (2-3 vs >3) and age (<75 years vs ≥75 years). 
Treatments were assigned based on a permuted blocked randomisation scheme with a 
block size of four. The isatuximab-pomalidomide-dexamethasone group received 
isatuximab intravenously on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 in the first 28-day cycle, 
then on days 1 and 15 in subsequent cycles. Both groups received oral 
pomalidomide on days 1 to 21 in each cycle, and oral or intravenous 
dexamethasone on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of each cycle. Treatment continued until 
disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or consent withdrawal. Dose 
reductions for adverse reactions were permitted for pomalidomide and 
dexamethasone, but not for isatuximab. The primary endpoint was progression-free 
survival, determined by an independent response committee and assessed in the 
intention-to-treat population. Safety was assessed in all participants who 
received at least one dose of study drug. This study is registered at 
ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02990338.
FINDINGS: Between Jan 10, 2017, and Feb 2, 2018, we randomly assigned 307 
patients to treatment: 154 to isatuximab-pomalidomide-dexamethasone, and 153 to 
pomalidomide-dexamethasone. At a median follow-up of 11·6 months (IQR 
10·1-13·9), median progression-free survival was 11·5 months (95% CI 8·9-13·9) 
in the isatuximab-pomalidomide-dexamethasone group versus 6·5 months (4·5-8·3) 
in the pomalidomide-dexamethasone group; hazard ratio 0·596, 95% CI 0·44-0·81; 
p=0·001 by stratified log-rank test. The most frequent treatment-emergent 
adverse events (any grade; isatuximab-pomalidomide-dexamethasone vs 
pomalidomide-dexamethasone) were infusion reactions (56 [38%] vs 0), upper 
respiratory tract infections (43 [28%] vs 26 [17%]), and diarrhoea (39 [26%] vs 
29 [20%]). Adverse events with a fatal outcome were reported in 12 patients (8%) 
in the isatuximab-pomalidomide-dexamethasone group and 14 (9%) in the 
pomalidomide-dexamethasone group. Deaths due to treatment-related adverse events 
were reported for one patient (<1%) in the isatuximab-pomalidomide-dexamethasone 
group (sepsis) and two (1%) in the pomalidomide-dexamethasone group (pneumonia 
and urinary tract infection).
INTERPRETATION: The addition of isatuximab to pomalidomide-dexamethasone 
significantly improves progression-free survival in patients with relapsed and 
refractory multiple myeloma. Isatuximab is an important new treatment option for 
the management of relapsed and refractory myeloma, particularly for patients who 
become refractory to lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor.
FUNDING: Sanofi. VIDEO ABSTRACT.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(19)32556-5
PMID: 31735560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]