---
reference_id: PMID:33989558
title: "Loncastuximab tesirine in relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (LOTIS-2): a multicentre, open-label, single-arm, phase 2 trial."
authors:
- Caimi PF
- Ai W
- Alderuccio JP
- Ardeshna KM
- Hamadani M
- Hess B
- Kahl BS
- Radford J
- Solh M
- Stathis A
- Zinzani PL
- Havenith K
- Feingold J
- He S
- Qin Y
- Ungar D
- Zhang X
- Carlo-Stella C
journal: Lancet Oncol
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00139-X
keywords:
- Adolescent
- Adult
- Aged
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/administration & dosage, adverse effects"
- "Antigens, CD19/drug effects, genetics"
- "Benzodiazepines/administration & dosage, adverse effects"
- "Drug-Related Side Effects and Adverse Reactions/classification, pathology"
- Female
- Humans
- "Immunoconjugates/administration & dosage, adverse effects"
- Italy/epidemiology
- "Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse/drug therapy, genetics, pathology"
- Male
- Middle Aged
- "Neoplasm Recurrence, Local/drug therapy, genetics, pathology"
- Recurrence
- Switzerland/epidemiology
- Young Adult
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Loncastuximab tesirine in relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (LOTIS-2): a multicentre, open-label, single-arm, phase 2 trial.
**Authors:** Caimi PF, Ai W, Alderuccio JP, Ardeshna KM, Hamadani M, Hess B, Kahl BS, Radford J, Solh M, Stathis A, Zinzani PL, Havenith K, Feingold J, He S, Qin Y, Ungar D, Zhang X, Carlo-Stella C
**Journal:** Lancet Oncol (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00139-X](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00139-X)

## Content

1. Lancet Oncol. 2021 Jun;22(6):790-800. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00139-X. Epub
 2021 May 11.

Loncastuximab tesirine in relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma 
(LOTIS-2): a multicentre, open-label, single-arm, phase 2 trial.

Caimi PF(1), Ai W(2), Alderuccio JP(3), Ardeshna KM(4), Hamadani M(5), Hess 
B(6), Kahl BS(7), Radford J(8), Solh M(9), Stathis A(10), Zinzani PL(11), 
Havenith K(12), Feingold J(13), He S(13), Qin Y(13), Ungar D(13), Zhang X(13), 
Carlo-Stella C(14).

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, OH, USA. Electronic address: paolo.caimi@case.edu.
(2)Division of Haematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami, Miami, FL, USA.
(4)Department of Haematology, University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation 
Trust, London, UK.
(5)Blood and Marrow Transplant and Cellular Therapy Programme, Department of 
Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA.
(6)Division of Haematology and Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Medical 
University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, Oncology Division, Washington University, St Louis, 
MO, USA.
(8)National Institute for Health Research Manchester Clinical Research Facility, 
University of Manchester and The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester 
Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, UK.
(9)Blood and Marrow Transplant Programme, Northside Hospital, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(10)Oncology Institute of Southern Switzerland, Bellinzona, Switzerland.
(11)IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Bologna Istituto di Ematologia 
"Seràgnoli" and Dipartimento di Medicina Specialistica, Diagnostica e 
Sperimentale Università di Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(12)ADC Therapeutics UK, London, UK.
(13)ADC Therapeutics America, Murray Hill, NJ, USA.
(14)Department of Oncology and Haematology, Humanitas Clinical and Research 
Center, IRCCS, Humanitas University, Milan, Italy.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2021 Jun;22(6):741-742. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00191-1.

BACKGROUND: Patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma 
(DLBCL) who do not respond to or who have progressive disease after salvage 
therapies have a poor prognosis. Loncastuximab tesirine is a CD19-directed 
antibody-drug conjugate with encouraging phase 1 single-agent antitumour 
activity and acceptable safety in non-Hodgkin lymphoma. We aimed to evaluate the 
antitumour activity and safety of loncastuximab tesirine in patients with 
relapsed or refractory DLBCL.
METHODS: We did a multicentre (28 hospital sites in the USA, UK, Italy, and 
Switzerland), open-label, single-arm, phase 2 trial (LOTIS-2) in patients aged 
18 years or older with relapsed or refractory DLBCL after two or more multiagent 
systemic treatments, who had measurable disease and Eastern Cooperative Oncology 
Group performance status 0-2. Eligible patients received loncastuximab tesirine 
intravenously on day 1 of each 21-day cycle, at 150 μg/kg for two cycles, then 
75 μg/kg thereafter, for up to 1 year or until disease relapse or progression, 
unacceptable toxicity, death, major protocol deviation, pregnancy, or patient, 
investigator, or sponsor decision. The primary endpoint was overall response 
rate assessed by central review. Primary antitumour activity and safety analyses 
were done in the as-treated population (patients who received at least one dose 
of loncastuximab tesirine), when all responding patients had at least 6 months 
of follow-up after initial documented response. Enrolment is complete. This 
trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT03589469.
FINDINGS: Between Aug 1, 2018, and Sept 24, 2019, 184 patients were assessed for 
eligibility and 145 (79%) were enrolled and received at least one dose of 
loncastuximab tesirine, including patients with high-risk characteristics for 
poor prognosis, such as double-hit, triple-hit, transformed, or primary 
refractory DLBCL. 70 of 145 patients had complete or partial response (overall 
response rate 48·3% [95% CI 39·9-56·7]); 35 had complete response and 35 had 
partial response. The most common grade 3 or higher treatment-emergent adverse 
events were neutropenia (37 [26%] of 145 patients), thrombocytopenia (26 [18%]), 
and increased gamma-glutamyltransferase (24 [17%]). Serious adverse events were 
reported in 57 (39%) of 145 patients. Treatment-emergent adverse events with a 
fatal outcome occurred in eight (6%) of 145 patients; none were considered 
related to loncastuximab tesirine.
INTERPRETATION: Loncastuximab tesirine has substantial single-agent antitumour 
activity and produces durable responses with an acceptable safety profile, 
potentially offering a new therapeutic option for heavily pretreated patients 
with relapsed or refractory DLBCL.
FUNDING: ADC Therapeutics.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(21)00139-X
PMID: 33989558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests PFC reports grants from 
ADC Therapeutics, during the conduct of the study; and grants and personal fees 
from Genentech, personal fees from ADC Therapeutics, Kite Pharmaceuticals, 
Verastem, Seattle Genetics, Amgen, TG Therapeutics, and Celgene, outside of the 
submitted work. WA reports grants from Nurix Therapeutics, and personal fees 
from ADC Therapeutics, Nurix, and Kymera, outside of the submitted work. JPA 
reports personal fees from ADC Therapeutics, OncLive, and Oncinfo, outside of 
the submitted work; and has an immediate family member who has served on 
advisory boards from Puma Biotechnology, Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Agios 
Pharmaceuticals, Forma Therapeutics, and Foundation Medicine. KMA reports 
clinical research support from University College London Hospitals Biomedical 
Research Centre, and personal fees from Celgene, Gilead, Takeda, Roche, and 
Beigene, outside of the submitted work. MH reports grants from Takeda, Spectrum 
Pharmaceuticals, Astellas Pharma, and personal fees from Janssen, Incyte 
Corporation, ADC Therapeutics, Celgene, Pharmacyclics, Omeros, AbGenomics, 
Verastem, TeneoBio, Sanofi Genzyme, BeiGene, and AstraZeneca, outside of the 
submitted work. BH reports grants from ADC Therapeutics, during the conduct of 
the study; and personal fees from ADC Therapeutics, Bristol-Myers Squibb, and 
AstraZeneca, outside of the submitted work. BSK reports grants from ADC 
Therapeutics, during the conduct of the study; and personal fees from Seattle 
Genetics and Genentech, outside of the submitted work. JR reports personal fees 
from Takeda, ADC Therapeutics, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Novartis, Kite Pharma, and 
Seattle Genetics, and his spouse owns stock in AstraZeneca, outside of the 
submitted work. MS reports grants from ADC Therapeutics, during the conduct of 
the study; and personal fees from Amgen and Celgene, outside of the submitted 
work. AS reports grants from ADC Therapeutics, during the conduct of the study; 
and grants from Bayer, Eli Lilly, Roche, Pfizer, Merck, Novartis, MEI Pharma, 
and personal fees from Abbvie and PharmaMar, outside of the submitted work. PLZ 
reports personal fees from Verastem, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Eusapharma, Sanofi, 
ADC Therapeutics, Celltrion, Gilead, Janssen-Cilag, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
Servier, Sandoz, Immune Design, Celgene, Portola, Roche, and Kyowa Kirin, 
outside of the submitted work. KH, JF, SH, and YQ report personal fees from ADC 
Therapeutics, during the conduct of the study. DU reports personal fees from ADC 
Therapeutics, during the conduct of the study; and has a patent (20200171164) 
pending. XZ reports other from ADC Therapeutics, outside of the submitted work. 
CC-S reports grants from ADC Therapeutics, during the conduct of the study; and 
grants from Rhizen Pharmaceuticals, and personal fees from Servier, Novartis, 
Genenta Science, ADC Therapeutics, Roche, Boehringer Ingelheim, Sanofi, 
Karyopharm, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Janssen Oncology, and 
AstraZeneca, outside of the submitted work.