---
reference_id: PMID:32646561
title: "Efficacy and Safety of Alirocumab in Adults With Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia: The ODYSSEY HoFH Trial."
authors:
- Blom DJ
- Harada-Shiba M
- Rubba P
- Gaudet D
- Kastelein JJP
- Charng MJ
- Pordy R
- Donahue S
- Ali S
- Dong Y
- Khilla N
- Banerjee P
- Baccara-Dinet M
- Rosenson RS
journal: J Am Coll Cardiol
year: '2020'
doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2020.05.027
keywords:
- Adult
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/administration & dosage"
- Biomarkers/blood
- "Cholesterol, LDL/blood"
- "Dose-Response Relationship, Drug"
- Double-Blind Method
- Female
- Homozygote
- Humans
- "Hyperlipoproteinemia Type II/blood, drug therapy"
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Risk Factors
- Treatment Outcome
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Efficacy and Safety of Alirocumab in Adults With Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia: The ODYSSEY HoFH Trial.
**Authors:** Blom DJ, Harada-Shiba M, Rubba P, Gaudet D, Kastelein JJP, Charng MJ, Pordy R, Donahue S, Ali S, Dong Y, Khilla N, Banerjee P, Baccara-Dinet M, Rosenson RS
**Journal:** J Am Coll Cardiol (2020)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.jacc.2020.05.027](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jacc.2020.05.027)

## Content

1. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2020 Jul 14;76(2):131-142. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2020.05.027.

Efficacy and Safety of Alirocumab in Adults With Homozygous 
Familial Hypercholesterolemia: The ODYSSEY HoFH Trial.

Blom DJ(1), Harada-Shiba M(2), Rubba P(3), Gaudet D(4), Kastelein JJP(5), Charng 
MJ(6), Pordy R(7), Donahue S(7), Ali S(7), Dong Y(8), Khilla N(7), Banerjee 
P(7), Baccara-Dinet M(8), Rosenson RS(9).

Author information:
(1)Division of Lipidology and Hatter Institute for Cardiovascular Research in 
Africa, Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South 
Africa. Electronic address: dirk.blom@uct.ac.za.
(2)National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center Research Institute, Suita, Osaka, 
Japan.
(3)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Chirurgia, Università "Federico II" di 
Napoli, Naples, Italy.
(4)ECOGENE-21 and Clinical Lipidology Unit, Community Gene Medicine Center, 
Department of Medicine, Université de Montréal, Chicoutimi, Quebec, Canada.
(5)Department of Vascular Medicine, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(6)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Taipei Veterans General 
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; Faculty of Medicine, School of Medicine, National 
Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(7)Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Tarrytown, New York.
(8)Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Basking Ridge, New Jersey, and Clinical 
Development, R&D, Sanofi, Montpellier, France.
(9)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2020 Jul 14;76(2):143-145. doi: 
10.1016/j.jacc.2020.05.033.

BACKGROUND: Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) is characterized by 
extremely elevated low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) levels and early 
onset atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease despite treatment with conventional 
lipid-lowering treatment.
OBJECTIVES: This study was designed to assess LDL-C reduction with the 
proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitor alirocumab in adult 
patients with HoFH.
METHODS: This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, 
phase 3 study evaluated efficacy and safety of alirocumab 150 mg every 2 weeks. 
The primary endpoint was percent reduction from baseline in LDL-C versus placebo 
after 12 weeks of treatment.
RESULTS: Patients (N = 69) were randomized 2:1 to alirocumab or placebo. At 
baseline, background lipid-lowering treatment included 67 patients receiving 
statin (59 patients on high-intensity statin); 50 patients on ezetimibe; 
10 patients on lomitapide; and 10 patients undergoing apheresis. Mean baseline 
LDL-C was 259.6 mg/dl in the placebo group and 295.0 mg/dl in the alirocumab 
group. At week 12, the least squares mean difference in LDL-C percent change 
from baseline was -35.6% (alirocumab [-26.9%] vs. placebo [8.6%]; p < 0.0001). 
Reductions (least squares mean difference) in other atherogenic lipids at week 
12 were: apolipoprotein B, -29.8%; non-high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol, -32.9%; total cholesterol, -26.5%; and lipoprotein(a), -28.4% (all 
p < 0.0001). No serious adverse events, permanent treatment discontinuations, or 
deaths due to treatment-emergent adverse events were reported during the 
double-blind treatment period.
CONCLUSIONS: In the largest randomized controlled interventional trial in HoFH 
patients to date, alirocumab resulted in significant and clinically meaningful 
reductions in LDL-C at week 12. Alirocumab was generally well tolerated, with a 
safety profile comparable to that of placebo. (Study in Participants With 
Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia [HoFH] [ODYSSEY HoFH] NCT03156621.).

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2020.05.027
PMID: 32646561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]