---
reference_id: PMID:25733246
title: "Sarilumab Plus Methotrexate in Patients With Active Rheumatoid Arthritis and Inadequate Response to Methotrexate: Results of a Phase III Study."
authors:
- Genovese MC
- Fleischmann R
- Kivitz AJ
- Rell-Bakalarska M
- Martincova R
- Fiore S
- Rohane P
- van Hoogstraten H
- Garg A
- Fan C
- van Adelsberg J
- Weinstein SP
- Graham NM
- Stahl N
- Yancopoulos GD
- Huizinga TW
- van der Heijde D
journal: Arthritis Rheumatol
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1002/art.39093
keywords:
- Adolescent
- Adult
- Aged
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/therapeutic use"
- Antirheumatic Agents/therapeutic use
- "Arthritis, Rheumatoid/drug therapy"
- Double-Blind Method
- "Drug Therapy, Combination"
- Female
- Humans
- Hypercholesterolemia/chemically induced
- "Interleukin-6 Receptor alpha Subunit/antagonists & inhibitors"
- Male
- Methotrexate/therapeutic use
- Middle Aged
- Neutropenia/chemically induced
- Treatment Outcome
- Young Adult
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Sarilumab Plus Methotrexate in Patients With Active Rheumatoid Arthritis and Inadequate Response to Methotrexate: Results of a Phase III Study.
**Authors:** Genovese MC, Fleischmann R, Kivitz AJ, Rell-Bakalarska M, Martincova R, Fiore S, Rohane P, van Hoogstraten H, Garg A, Fan C, van Adelsberg J, Weinstein SP, Graham NM, Stahl N, Yancopoulos GD, Huizinga TW, van der Heijde D
**Journal:** Arthritis Rheumatol (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1002/art.39093](https://doi.org/10.1002/art.39093)

## Content

1. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2015 Jun;67(6):1424-37. doi: 10.1002/art.39093.

Sarilumab Plus Methotrexate in Patients With Active Rheumatoid Arthritis and 
Inadequate Response to Methotrexate: Results of a Phase III Study.

Genovese MC(1), Fleischmann R(2), Kivitz AJ(3), Rell-Bakalarska M(4), Martincova 
R(5), Fiore S(6), Rohane P(6), van Hoogstraten H(6), Garg A(6), Fan C(6), van 
Adelsberg J(7), Weinstein SP(7), Graham NM(7), Stahl N(7), Yancopoulos GD(7), 
Huizinga TW(8), van der Heijde D(8).

Author information:
(1)Stanford University Medical Center, Palo Alto, California.
(2)Metroplex Clinical Research Center, Dallas, Texas.
(3)Altoona Center for Clinical Research, Duncansville, Pennsylvania.
(4)Rheumatology and Osteoporosis Outpatient Clinic, Warsaw, Poland.
(5)Sanofi, Prague, Czech Republic.
(6)Sanofi, Bridgewater, New Jersey.
(7)Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Tarrytown, New York.
(8)Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2015 Jun;11(6):321-2. doi: 10.1038/nrrheum.2015.58.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of sarilumab in combination with 
methotrexate (MTX) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: Adults with moderate-to-severe RA and an inadequate response to MTX 
were randomized (1:1:1) to receive sarilumab (doses of 150 mg or 200 mg) or 
placebo every 2 weeks in conjunction with weekly MTX for 52 weeks. Co-primary 
end points were the proportion of patients achieving American College of 
Rheumatology 20% (ACR20) improvement responses at week 24, change from baseline 
in the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) disability index (DI) at week 16, 
and change from baseline in the modified Sharp/van der Heijde score (SHS) of 
radiographic damage at week 52.
RESULTS: Baseline characteristics were similar among the groups. For all 3 
co-primary end points, the sarilumab 150 mg and 200 mg groups demonstrated 
statistically significant improvements as compared with the placebo group (ACR20 
response rate at week 24, 58.0%, 66.4%, and 33.4%, respectively [P < 0.0001]; 
least squares mean change in HAQ DI at week 16, -0.53, -0.55, and -0.29, 
respectively [P < 0.0001]; and mean change in SHS at week 52, 0.90, 0.25, and 
2.78, respectively [P < 0.0001]). The most common treatment-emergent adverse 
event was infection. In the sarilumab 150 mg, sarilumab 200 mg, and placebo 
groups, the incidence of serious infections was 2.6%, 4.0%, and 2.3%, 
respectively. Elevations in alanine aminotransferase levels >3-fold the upper 
limit of normal occurred in 9.5%, 8.0%, and 2.1% of patients, respectively; in 
24 patients, this led to discontinuation of treatment. Elevated total 
cholesterol levels were observed in 36.8%, 43.0%, and 18.3% of patients, 
respectively. In patients receiving 150 mg and 200 mg sarilumab, neutrophil 
counts of 0.5 to <1.0 × 10(9) /liter were observed in 5.1% and 7.8% of patients, 
respectively, while neutrophil counts of <0.5 × 10(9) /liter were observed in 
0.9% and 0.7% of patients, respectively; none of the patients receiving placebo 
experienced changes in neutrophil counts.
CONCLUSION: In RA patients treated with sarilumab (150 mg or 200 mg every 2 
weeks) in combination with MTX, both doses provided sustained clinical efficacy, 
as shown by significant improvements in symptomatic, functional, and 
radiographic outcomes. Sarilumab was generally well tolerated. The adverse 
events observed in this study were consistent with the effects of interleukin-6 
signaling blockade.

© 2015 sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC. Arthritis & Rheumatology is published by Wiley 
Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of the American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.39093
PMID: 25733246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]