---
reference_id: PMID:29171821
title: A Controlled Trial of Erenumab for Episodic Migraine.
authors:
- Goadsby PJ
- Reuter U
- Hallström Y
- Broessner G
- Bonner JH
- Zhang F
- Sapra S
- Picard H
- Mikol DD
- Lenz RA
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2017'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1705848
keywords:
- Adolescent
- Adult
- Aged
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Calcitonin Gene-Related Peptide Receptor Antagonists
- Chronic Disease
- "Dose-Response Relationship, Drug"
- Double-Blind Method
- Drug Administration Schedule
- Female
- Humans
- "Injections, Subcutaneous"
- Least-Squares Analysis
- Male
- Middle Aged
- "Migraine Disorders/prevention & control"
- Young Adult
content_type: abstract_only
---

# A Controlled Trial of Erenumab for Episodic Migraine.
**Authors:** Goadsby PJ, Reuter U, Hallström Y, Broessner G, Bonner JH, Zhang F, Sapra S, Picard H, Mikol DD, Lenz RA
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2017)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa1705848](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1705848)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2017 Nov 30;377(22):2123-2132. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1705848.

A Controlled Trial of Erenumab for Episodic Migraine.

Goadsby PJ(1), Reuter U(1), Hallström Y(1), Broessner G(1), Bonner JH(1), Zhang 
F(1), Sapra S(1), Picard H(1), Mikol DD(1), Lenz RA(1).

Author information:
(1)From the National Institute for Health Research-Wellcome Trust King's 
Clinical Research Facility, King's College Hospital, London (P.J.G.); the 
Department of Neurology, Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin (U.R.); the 
Neuro Center, St. Göran Hospital, Stockholm (Y.H.); the Department of Neurology, 
Headache Outpatient Clinic, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria 
(G.B.); Mercy Research, St. Louis (J.H.B.); and the Departments of Global 
Biostatistical Science (F.Z.), Global Health Economics (S.S.), and Global 
Development (H.P., D.D.M., R.A.L.), Amgen, Thousand Oaks, CA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2017 Nov 30;377(22):2190-2191. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe1712559.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2018 Feb;14(2):63. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2017.177.
    N Engl J Med. 2018 Feb 22;378(8):773-4. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1716990.
    BMJ Evid Based Med. 2019 Apr;24(2):76. doi: 10.1136/bmjebm-2018-110937.

BACKGROUND: We tested erenumab, a fully human monoclonal antibody that inhibits 
the calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor, for the prevention of episodic 
migraine.
METHODS: We randomly assigned patients to receive a subcutaneous injection of 
either erenumab, at a dose of 70 mg or 140 mg, or placebo monthly for 6 months. 
The primary end point was the change from baseline to months 4 through 6 in the 
mean number of migraine days per month. Secondary end points were a 50% or 
greater reduction in mean migraine days per month, change in the number of days 
of use of acute migraine-specific medication, and change in scores on the 
physical-impairment and everyday-activities domains of the Migraine Physical 
Function Impact Diary (scale transformed to 0 to 100, with higher scores 
representing greater migraine burden on functioning).
RESULTS: A total of 955 patients underwent randomization: 317 were assigned to 
the 70-mg erenumab group, 319 to the 140-mg erenumab group, and 319 to the 
placebo group. The mean number of migraine days per month at baseline was 8.3 in 
the overall population; by months 4 through 6, the number of days was reduced by 
3.2 in the 70-mg erenumab group and by 3.7 in the 140-mg erenumab group, as 
compared with 1.8 days in the placebo group (P<0.001 for each dose vs. placebo). 
A 50% or greater reduction in the mean number of migraine days per month was 
achieved for 43.3% of patients in the 70-mg erenumab group and 50.0% of patients 
in the 140-mg erenumab group, as compared with 26.6% in the placebo group 
(P<0.001 for each dose vs. placebo), and the number of days of use of acute 
migraine-specific medication was reduced by 1.1 days in the 70-mg erenumab group 
and by 1.6 days in the 140-mg erenumab group, as compared with 0.2 days in the 
placebo group (P<0.001 for each dose vs. placebo). Physical-impairment scores 
improved by 4.2 and 4.8 points in the 70-mg and 140-mg erenumab groups, 
respectively, as compared with 2.4 points in the placebo group (P<0.001 for each 
dose vs. placebo), and everyday-activities scores improved by 5.5 and 5.9 points 
in the 70-mg and 140-mg erenumab groups, respectively, as compared with 3.3 
points in the placebo group (P<0.001 for each dose vs. placebo). The rates of 
adverse events were similar between erenumab and placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: Erenumab administered subcutaneously at a monthly dose of 70 mg or 
140 mg significantly reduced migraine frequency, the effects of migraines on 
daily activities, and the use of acute migraine-specific medication over a 
period of 6 months. The long-term safety and durability of the effect of 
erenumab require further study. (Funded by Amgen and Novartis; STRIVE 
ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02456740 .).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1705848
PMID: 29171821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]