---
reference_id: PMID:11496232
title: "Omalizumab, anti-IgE recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody, for the treatment of severe allergic asthma."
authors:
- Busse W
- Corren J
- Lanier BQ
- McAlary M
- Fowler-Taylor A
- Cioppa GD
- van As A
- Gupta N
journal: J Allergy Clin Immunol
year: '2001'
doi: 10.1067/mai.2001.117880
keywords:
- Adolescent
- Adult
- Aged
- "Anti-Allergic Agents/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Anti-Asthmatic Agents/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Antibodies, Anti-Idiotypic"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized"
- Asthma/drug therapy
- Child
- Female
- Humans
- "Immunoglobulin E/blood, immunology"
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Omalizumab
- Respiratory Function Tests
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Omalizumab, anti-IgE recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody, for the treatment of severe allergic asthma.
**Authors:** Busse W, Corren J, Lanier BQ, McAlary M, Fowler-Taylor A, Cioppa GD, van As A, Gupta N
**Journal:** J Allergy Clin Immunol (2001)
**DOI:** [10.1067/mai.2001.117880](https://doi.org/10.1067/mai.2001.117880)

## Content

1. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2001 Aug;108(2):184-90. doi: 10.1067/mai.2001.117880.

Omalizumab, anti-IgE recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody, for the 
treatment of severe allergic asthma.

Busse W(1), Corren J, Lanier BQ, McAlary M, Fowler-Taylor A, Cioppa GD, van As 
A, Gupta N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Wisconsin Hospital & Clinics, 
University of Wisconsin, Madison, 53792, USA.

BACKGROUND: A recombinant humanized anti-IgE mAb, omalizumab, forms complexes 
with free IgE, blocking its interaction with mast cells and basophils; as a 
consequence, it might be effective in the treatment of asthma.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
omalizumab in the treatment of inhaled corticosteroid-dependent asthma.
METHODS: In this phase III, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial, 525 
subjects with severe allergic asthma requiring daily inhaled corticosteroids 
were randomized to receive placebo or omalizumab subcutaneously every 2 or 4 
weeks, depending on baseline IgE level and body weight. Inhaled corticosteroid 
doses were kept stable over the initial 16 weeks of treatment and tapered during 
a further 12-week treatment period.
RESULTS: Omalizumab treatment resulted in significantly fewer asthma 
exacerbations per subject and in lower percentages of subjects experiencing an 
exacerbation than placebo treatment during the stable steroid phase (0.28 vs 
0.54 [P =.006] and 14.6% vs 23.3% [P =.009], respectively) and during the 
steroid reduction phase (0.39 vs 0.66 [P =.003] and 21.3% vs 32.3% [P =.004], 
respectively). Beclomethasone dipropionate reduction was significantly greater 
with omalizumab treatment than with placebo (median 75% vs 50% [P <.001]), and 
beclomethasone dipropionate discontinuation was more likely with omalizumab 
(39.6% vs 19.1% [P <.001]). Improvements in asthma symptoms and pulmonary 
function occurred along with a reduction in rescue beta-agonist use. Omalizumab 
was well tolerated, with an adverse-events profile similar to that of placebo.
CONCLUSION: The addition of omalizumab to standard asthma therapy reduces asthma 
exacerbations and decreases inhaled corticosteroid and rescue medication use.

DOI: 10.1067/mai.2001.117880
PMID: 11496232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]