---
reference_id: PMID:26035255
title: Elotuzumab Therapy for Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma.
authors:
- Lonial S
- Dimopoulos M
- Palumbo A
- White D
- Grosicki S
- Spicka I
- Walter-Croneck A
- Moreau P
- Mateos MV
- Magen H
- Belch A
- Reece D
- Beksac M
- Spencer A
- Oakervee H
- Orlowski RZ
- Taniwaki M
- Röllig C
- Einsele H
- Wu KL
- Singhal A
- San-Miguel J
- Matsumoto M
- Katz J
- Bleickardt E
- Poulart V
- Anderson KC
- Richardson P
- ELOQUENT-2 Investigators
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2015'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1505654
keywords:
- Adult
- Aged
- "Aged, 80 and over"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Dexamethasone/therapeutic use
- Disease-Free Survival
- Humans
- Lenalidomide
- Middle Aged
- "Multiple Myeloma/drug therapy, mortality"
- "Receptors, Immunologic/antagonists & inhibitors"
- Recurrence
- Signaling Lymphocytic Activation Molecule Family
- "Thalidomide/analogs & derivatives, therapeutic use"
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Elotuzumab Therapy for Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma.
**Authors:** Lonial S, Dimopoulos M, Palumbo A, White D, Grosicki S, Spicka I, Walter-Croneck A, Moreau P, Mateos MV, Magen H, Belch A, Reece D, Beksac M, Spencer A, Oakervee H, Orlowski RZ, Taniwaki M, Röllig C, Einsele H, Wu KL, Singhal A, San-Miguel J, Matsumoto M, Katz J, Bleickardt E, Poulart V, Anderson KC, Richardson P, ELOQUENT-2 Investigators
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2015)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa1505654](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1505654)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2015 Aug 13;373(7):621-31. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1505654. Epub 2015
 Jun 2.

Elotuzumab Therapy for Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma.

Lonial S(1), Dimopoulos M, Palumbo A, White D, Grosicki S, Spicka I, 
Walter-Croneck A, Moreau P, Mateos MV, Magen H, Belch A, Reece D, Beksac M, 
Spencer A, Oakervee H, Orlowski RZ, Taniwaki M, Röllig C, Einsele H, Wu KL, 
Singhal A, San-Miguel J, Matsumoto M, Katz J, Bleickardt E, Poulart V, Anderson 
KC, Richardson P; ELOQUENT-2 Investigators.

Author information:
(1)From Winship Cancer Institute, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta 
(S.L.); National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens (M.D.); A.O.U. 
San Giovanni Battista di Torino-Ospedale Molinette, Turin, Italy (A.P.); QEII 
Health Science Center and Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS (D.W.), Cross Cancer 
Institute and University of Alberta, Edmonton (A.B.), and Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre, Toronto (D.R.) - all in Canada; Silesian Medical University, 
Katowice (S.G.), and Medical University of Lublin, Lublin (A.W.-C.) - both in 
Poland; Charles University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic (I.S.); University 
Hospital, Nantes, France (P.M.); Complejo Asistencial Universitario de 
Salamanca-Instituto de Investigación Biomédica de Salamanca, Salamanca 
(M.-V.M.), and Clinica Universidad de Navarra-Centro de Investigación Médica 
Aplicada, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Navarra, Pamplona (J.S.-M.) - 
both in Spain; Davidoff Cancer Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petah Tikva, and 
Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv - both in Israel (H.M.); Ankara University, 
Ankara, Turkey (M.B.); Alfred Health-Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia (A. Spencer); Barts and the London NHS Trust, London (H.O.); 
University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston (R.Z.O.); Kyoto 
Prefectural University of Medicine, Kyoto (M.T.), and Nishigunma National 
Hospital, Shibukawa (M.M.) - both in Japan; Universitätsklinikum der Technische 
Universität, Dresden (C.R.), and Universitätsklinikum Würzburg, Würzburg (H.E.) 
- both in Germany; Zeikenhuis Netwerk Antwerpen (ZNA) Stuivenberg, Antwerp, 
Belgium (K.L.W.); AbbVie Biotherapeutics, Redwood City, CA (A. Singhal); 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, NJ (J.K.), Wallingford, CT (E.B.), and 
Braine-l'Alleud, Belgium (V.P.); and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston 
(K.C.A., P.R.).

BACKGROUND: Elotuzumab, an immunostimulatory monoclonal antibody targeting 
signaling lymphocytic activation molecule F7 (SLAMF7), showed activity in 
combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in a phase 1b-2 study in 
patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
METHODS: In this phase 3 study, we randomly assigned patients to receive either 
elotuzumab plus lenalidomide and dexamethasone (elotuzumab group) or 
lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone (control group). Coprimary end points were 
progression-free survival and the overall response rate. Final results for the 
coprimary end points are reported on the basis of a planned interim analysis of 
progression-free survival.
RESULTS: Overall, 321 patients were assigned to the elotuzumab group and 325 to 
the control group. After a median follow-up of 24.5 months, the rate of 
progression-free survival at 1 year in the elotuzumab group was 68%, as compared 
with 57% in the control group; at 2 years, the rates were 41% and 27%, 
respectively. Median progression-free survival in the elotuzumab group was 19.4 
months, versus 14.9 months in the control group (hazard ratio for progression or 
death in the elotuzumab group, 0.70; 95% confidence interval, 0.57 to 0.85; 
P<0.001). The overall response rate in the elotuzumab group was 79%, versus 66% 
in the control group (P<0.001). Common grade 3 or 4 adverse events in the two 
groups were lymphocytopenia, neutropenia, fatigue, and pneumonia. Infusion 
reactions occurred in 33 patients (10%) in the elotuzumab group and were grade 1 
or 2 in 29 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who received 
a combination of elotuzumab, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone had a significant 
relative reduction of 30% in the risk of disease progression or death. (Funded 
by Bristol-Myers Squibb and AbbVie Biotherapeutics; ELOQUENT-2 
ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT01239797.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1505654
PMID: 26035255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]