---
reference_id: PMID:34146511
title: "Safety, efficacy, and tolerability of efgartigimod in patients with generalised myasthenia gravis (ADAPT): a multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial."
authors:
- Howard JF Jr
- Bril V
- Vu T
- Karam C
- Peric S
- Margania T
- Murai H
- Bilinska M
- Shakarishvili R
- Smilowski M
- Guglietta A
- Ulrichts P
- Vangeneugden T
- Utsugisawa K
- Verschuuren J
- Mantegazza R
- ADAPT Investigator Study Group
journal: Lancet Neurol
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(21)00159-9
keywords:
- Activities of Daily Living
- Adult
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/therapeutic use"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/therapeutic use"
- Autoantibodies/immunology
- Double-Blind Method
- Female
- Headache/drug therapy
- Humans
- Immunoglobulin Fc Fragments/therapeutic use
- Longitudinal Studies
- Male
- Middle Aged
- "Myasthenia Gravis/drug therapy, immunology"
- "Receptors, Cholinergic/immunology"
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Safety, efficacy, and tolerability of efgartigimod in patients with generalised myasthenia gravis (ADAPT): a multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial.
**Authors:** Howard JF Jr, Bril V, Vu T, Karam C, Peric S, Margania T, Murai H, Bilinska M, Shakarishvili R, Smilowski M, Guglietta A, Ulrichts P, Vangeneugden T, Utsugisawa K, Verschuuren J, Mantegazza R, ADAPT Investigator Study Group
**Journal:** Lancet Neurol (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1016/S1474-4422(21)00159-9](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1474-4422(21)00159-9)

## Content

1. Lancet Neurol. 2021 Jul;20(7):526-536. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(21)00159-9.

Safety, efficacy, and tolerability of efgartigimod in patients with generalised 
myasthenia gravis (ADAPT): a multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 
3 trial.

Howard JF Jr(1), Bril V(2), Vu T(3), Karam C(4), Peric S(5), Margania T(6), 
Murai H(7), Bilinska M(8), Shakarishvili R(9), Smilowski M(10), Guglietta A(11), 
Ulrichts P(11), Vangeneugden T(11), Utsugisawa K(12), Verschuuren J(13), 
Mantegazza R(14); ADAPT Investigator Study Group.

Collaborators: De Bleecker JL, De Koning K, De Mey K, De Pue A, Mercelis R, 
Wyckmans M, Vinck C, Wagemaekers L, Baets J, Ng E, Shabanpour J, Daniyal L, 
Mannan S, Katzberg HD, Genge A, Siddiqi Z, Junkerová J, Horakova J, Reguliova K, 
Tyblova M, Jurajdova I, Novakova I, Jakubikova M, Pitha J, Vohanka S, Havelkova 
K, Horak T, Bednarik J, Horakova M, Meisel A, Remstedt D, Heibutzki C, Kohler S, 
Gerischer L, Hoffman S, Stascheit F, Vissing J, Zafirakos L, Khatri KK, Autzen 
A, Godtfeldt Stemmerik MP, Andersen H, Attarian S, Salort-Campana E, Delmont E, 
Grapperon AM, Kouton L, Tsiskaridze A, Rózsa C, Jakab GM, Toth S, Szabo G, Bors 
D, Szabo E, Campanella A, Vanoli F, Frangiamore R, Antozzi C, Bonanno S, Maggi 
L, Giossi R, Saccà F, Marsili A, Pane C, Puorro G, Reia A, Antonini G, Alfieri 
G, Morino S, Garibaldi M, Fionda L, Leonardi L, Konno S, Uzawa A, Sakuma K, 
Watanabe C, Ozawa Y, Yasuda M, Onishi Y, Samukawa M, Tsuda T, Suzuki Y, Ishida 
S, Watanabe G, Takahashi M, Nakamura H, Sugano E, Kubota T, Imai T, Suzuki M, 
Mori A, Yamamoto D, Ikeda K, Hisahara S, Masuda M, Takaki M, Minemoto K, Ido N, 
Naito M, Okubo Y, Sugimoto T, Takematsu Y, Kamei A, Shimizu M, Naito H, Nomura 
E, Van Heur M, Peters AM, Tannemaat M, Ruiter A, Keene K, Halas M, Szczudlik A, 
Pinkosz M, Frasinska M, Zwolinska G, Kostera-Pruszczyk A, Golenia A, Szczudlik 
P, Szczechowski L, Pasko A, Poverennova I, Urtaeva L, Kuznetsova N, Romanova T, 
Nadezhda M, Lapochka E, Korobko D, Vergunova I, Melnikova A, Bulatova E, 
Antipenko E, Basta I, Bozovic I, Lavrnic D, Stojanovic VR, Beydoun S, Akhter S, 
Malekniazi A, Darki L, Pimentel N, Cannon V, Chopra M, Traub R, Mozaffar T, 
Hernandez I, Turner I, Habib A, Goyal N, Kak M, Velasquez E, Lam L, Suresh N, 
Farias J, Jones S, Wagoner M, Eggleston D, Bertorini T, Benzel C, Henegar R, 
Pillai R, Bharavaju-Sanka R, Paiz C, Jackson C, Ruzhansky K, Dimitrova D, Visser 
A, Chahin N, Levine T, Lisak R, Jia K, Mada F, Bernitsas E, Pasnoor M, Roath K, 
Colgan S, Currence M, Heim A, Barohn R, Dimachkie M, Statland J, Jawdat O, 
Jabari D, Farmakidis C, Gilchrist J, Li Y, Caristo I, Hastings D, Morren JA, 
Weiss M, Muppidi S, Nguyen T, Welsh L, So Y, Goyal N, Pulley M, Bailey C, 
Quraishi Z, Berger A, Sahagian G, Camberos Y, Frishberg B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronic address: howardj@neurology.unc.edu.
(2)Ellen & Martin Prosserman Centre for Neuromuscular Diseases, University 
Health Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of South Florida Morsani College of 
Medicine, Tampa, FL, USA.
(4)Penn Neuroscience Center-Neurology, Hospital of the University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(5)Neurology Clinic, Clinical Center of Serbia, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(6)Department of Neurology and Neurorehabilitation, New Hospitals, Tbilisi, 
Georgia.
(7)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, International University of 
Health and Welfare, Narita, Japan.
(8)Department and Clinic of Neurology, Wroclaw Medical University, Wroclaw, 
Poland.
(9)Sarajishvili Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Tbilisi, Georgia.
(10)Department of Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.
(11)argenx, Ghent, Belgium.
(12)Department of Neurology, Hanamaki General Hospital, Hanamaki, Japan.
(13)Department of Neurology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, 
Netherlands.
(14)Department of Neuroimmunology and Neuromuscular Diseases, Fondazione 
Istituto Neurologico Carlo Besta, Milan, Italy.

Erratum in
    Lancet Neurol. 2021 Aug;20(8):e5. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(21)00216-7.

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2021 Jul;20(7):499-500. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(21)00173-3.
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2021 Oct;17(10):597-598. doi: 10.1038/s41582-021-00547-z.

BACKGROUND: There is an unmet need for treatment options for generalised 
myasthenia gravis that are effective, targeted, well tolerated, and can be used 
in a broad population of patients. We aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of 
efgartigimod (ARGX-113), a human IgG1 antibody Fc fragment engineered to reduce 
pathogenic IgG autoantibody levels, in patients with generalised myasthenia 
gravis.
METHODS: ADAPT was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial 
done at 56 neuromuscular academic and community centres in 15 countries in North 
America, Europe, and Japan. Patients aged at least 18 years with generalised 
myasthenia gravis were eligible to participate in the study, regardless of 
anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody status, if they had a Myasthenia Gravis 
Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) score of at least 5 (>50% non-ocular), and 
were on a stable dose of at least one treatment for generalised myasthenia 
gravis. Patients were randomly assigned by interactive response technology (1:1) 
to efgartigimod (10 mg/kg) or matching placebo, administered as four infusions 
per cycle (one infusion per week), repeated as needed depending on clinical 
response no sooner than 8 weeks after initiation of the previous cycle. 
Patients, investigators, and clinical site staff were all masked to treatment 
allocation. The primary endpoint was proportion of acetylcholine receptor 
antibody-positive patients who were MG-ADL responders (≥2-point MG-ADL 
improvement sustained for ≥4 weeks) in the first treatment cycle. The primary 
analysis was done in the modified intention-to-treat population of all 
acetylcholine receptor antibody-positive patients who had a valid baseline 
MG-ADL assessment and at least one post-baseline MG-ADL assessment. The safety 
analysis included all randomly assigned patients who received at least one dose 
or part dose of efgartigimod or placebo. This trial is registered at 
ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT03669588); an open-label extension is ongoing (ADAPT+, 
NCT03770403).
FINDINGS: Between Sept 5, 2018, and Nov 26, 2019, 167 patients (84 in the 
efgartigimod group and 83 in the placebo group) were enrolled, randomly 
assigned, and treated. 129 (77%) were acetylcholine receptor antibody-positive. 
Of these patients, more of those in the efgartigimod group were MG-ADL 
responders (44 [68%] of 65) in cycle 1 than in the placebo group (19 [30%] of 
64), with an odds ratio of 4·95 (95% CI 2·21-11·53, p<0·0001). 65 (77%) of 84 
patients in the efgartigimod group and 70 (84%) of 83 in the placebo group had 
treatment-emergent adverse events, with the most frequent being headache 
(efgartigimod 24 [29%] vs placebo 23 [28%]) and nasopharyngitis (efgartigimod 
ten [12%] vs placebo 15 [18%]). Four (5%) efgartigimod-treated patients and 
seven (8%) patients in the placebo group had a serious adverse event. Three 
patients in each treatment group (4%) discontinued treatment during the study. 
There were no deaths.
INTERPRETATION: Efgartigimod was well tolerated and efficacious in patients with 
generalised myasthenia gravis. The individualised dosing based on clinical 
response was a unique feature of ADAPT, and translation to clinical practice 
with longer term safety and efficacy data will be further informed by the 
ongoing open-label extension.
FUNDING: argenx.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(21)00159-9
PMID: 34146511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests JFH has received 
research support from Alexion Pharmaceuticals, argenx, the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (Atlanta, GA, USA), the Muscular Dystrophy Association, 
the National Institutes of Health (NIH; including the National Institute of 
Neurological Disorders and Stroke and the National Institute of Arthritis and 
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases), Patient Centered Outcomes Research 
Institute, and Ra Pharmaceuticals (now UCB); honoraria from Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals, argenx, Immunovant, Ra Pharmaceuticals (now UCB), Regeneron 
Pharmaceuticals, and Viela Bio; and non-financial support from Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals, argenx, Ra Pharmaceuticals (now UCB), and Toleranzia. VB has 
received research support from Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, Grifols, UCB, 
Bionevia, Shire, and Octapharma. TVu has served as a speaker for Alexion; has 
done consulting work for argenx and UCB; and participated in trials in 
myasthenia gravis sponsored by NIH, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, argenx, Ra, Viela 
Bio, UCB, and Grifols. CK has served on advisory boards for Acceleron, Akcea, 
Alexion, Alnylam, argenx, Biogen, CSL Behring, Cytokinetics, and Sanofi-Genzyme; 
and received research grants from Genzyme and Akcea. SP reports lecture 
honoraria from Pfizer, Teva Actavis, Berlin Chemie Menarini, Mylan, Worwag, 
Adoc, and Salveo; research grants from Kedrion, Octapharma, and Argenx; 
consultant fees from argenx, Mylan, and Roche; and travel grants from 
Octapharma, Kedrion, Teva Actavis, Sanofi Genzyme, Pfizer, Roche, Adoc, and 
Berlin Chemie Menarini, all outside the submitted work. HM has served as a paid 
consultant for Alexion Pharmaceuticals, argenx, and Ra Pharma; and has received 
speaker honoraria from the Japan Blood Products Organization and research 
support from the Ministry of Health, Labor, and Welfare, Japan. AG, PU, and TVa 
are full-time employees of argenx, Ghent, Belgium. KU has served as a paid 
consultant for argenx, Ra Pharma, UCB Pharma, Viela Bio, and Regeneron 
Pharmaceuticals; and has received speaker honoraria from Alexion Pharmaceuticals 
and the Japan Blood Products Organization. JV receives research support from 
Target to B consortium, Prinses Beatrix Spierfonds, and argenx; has been 
involved in trials or consultancies for argenx, Alexion, and Ra pharma; JV is 
coinventor on patent applications based on MUSK-related research; and is a 
member of the European Reference Network for Rare Neuromuscular Diseases; and 
JV's institution received royalties from Immuno-Biological Laboratories. RM has 
received personal compensation for consulting, serving on a scientific advisory 
board, speaking, or other activities with BioMarin, Catalyst, Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals, UCB, and argenx. All other authors declare no competing 
interests.