---
reference_id: PMID:33200890
title: Phase 3 Trial of Interleukin-1 Trap Rilonacept in Recurrent Pericarditis.
authors:
- Klein AL
- Imazio M
- Cremer P
- Brucato A
- Abbate A
- Fang F
- Insalaco A
- LeWinter M
- Lewis BS
- Lin D
- Luis SA
- Nicholls SJ
- Pano A
- Wheeler A
- Paolini JF
- RHAPSODY Investigators
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2021'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2027892
keywords:
- Adolescent
- Adult
- Aged
- Double-Blind Method
- Female
- Humans
- "Injections, Subcutaneous/adverse effects"
- Interleukin-1alpha
- Interleukin-1beta
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Pericarditis/drug therapy
- Proportional Hazards Models
- "Receptors, Interleukin-1 Type I/antagonists & inhibitors"
- "Recombinant Fusion Proteins/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Recurrence
- Respiratory Tract Infections/etiology
- Young Adult
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Phase 3 Trial of Interleukin-1 Trap Rilonacept in Recurrent Pericarditis.
**Authors:** Klein AL, Imazio M, Cremer P, Brucato A, Abbate A, Fang F, Insalaco A, LeWinter M, Lewis BS, Lin D, Luis SA, Nicholls SJ, Pano A, Wheeler A, Paolini JF, RHAPSODY Investigators
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2021)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa2027892](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa2027892)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2021 Jan 7;384(1):31-41. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa2027892. Epub 2020
Nov  16.

Phase 3 Trial of Interleukin-1 Trap Rilonacept in Recurrent Pericarditis.

Klein AL(1), Imazio M(1), Cremer P(1), Brucato A(1), Abbate A(1), Fang F(1), 
Insalaco A(1), LeWinter M(1), Lewis BS(1), Lin D(1), Luis SA(1), Nicholls SJ(1), 
Pano A(1), Wheeler A(1), Paolini JF(1); RHAPSODY Investigators.

Collaborators: Abbate A, Abo-Auda W, Akhtar A, Arad M, Atar S, Baibhav B, Bhalla 
K, Brucato A, Collins S, Colquhoun D, Cremer P, Cross D, Dwivedi G, Eisen A, 
Freedberg N, Fuchs S, Gaddam E, Gattorno M, Gelfand E, Grena P, Halabi M, Harris 
D, Imazio M, Insalaco A, Karim A, Klein A, Knowlton K, Kontzias A, Kornberg R, 
Latif F, Leibowitz D, LeWinter M, Lin D, Lotan D, Lou PW, Luis SA, Moriel M, 
Nicholls S, Petersen J, Portman M, Roberts-Thomson P, Schiff E, Siegel R, Stokes 
M, Sutej P, Wittekind S, Witzling V, Zukermann R.

Author information:
(1)From the Center for the Diagnosis and Treatment of Pericardial Diseases, 
Section of Cardiovascular Imaging, Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Heart, 
Vascular, and Thoracic Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland (A.L.K., P.C.); 
University Cardiology, Cardiovascular, and Thoracic Department, Azienda 
Ospedaliero-Universitaria (AOU) Città della Salute e della Scienza di Torino and 
University of Turin, Turin (M.I.), the Department of Biomedical and Clinical 
Science, University of Milan, Fatebenefratelli Hospital, Milan (A.B.), and the 
Division of Rheumatology, IRCCS Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Gesù, Rome (A.I.) - 
all in Italy; Pauley Heart Center, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond 
(A.A.); Kiniksa Pharmaceuticals, Lexington, MA (F.F., A.P., J.F.P.); the 
Cardiology Unit, University of Vermont Medical Center, Burlington (M.L.); the 
Cardiovascular Clinical Research Institute, Lady Davis Carmel Medical Center and 
the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel (B.S.L.); the 
Minneapolis Heart Institute, Abbott Northwestern Hospital, Minneapolis (D.L.), 
and the Division of Cardiovascular Ultrasound, Department of Cardiovascular 
Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester (S.A.L.) - both in Minnesota; the Monash 
Cardiovascular Research Centre, Victorian Heart Institute, Monash University, 
Clayton, VIC, Australia (S.J.N.); and Kiniksa Pharmaceuticals, Hamilton, Bermuda 
(A.W.).

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2021 Feb;18(2):73. doi: 10.1038/s41569-020-00491-3.
    Eur Heart J. 2021 Apr 7;42(14):1287-1288. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehab100.
    N Engl J Med. 2021 Apr 15;384(15):1474. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc2101978.
    N Engl J Med. 2021 Apr 15;384(15):1474-1475. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc2101978.

BACKGROUND: Interleukin-1 has been implicated as a mediator of recurrent 
pericarditis. The efficacy and safety of rilonacept, an interleukin-1α and 
interleukin-1β cytokine trap, were studied previously in a phase 2 trial 
involving patients with recurrent pericarditis.
METHODS: We conducted a phase 3 multicenter, double-blind, event-driven, 
randomized-withdrawal trial of rilonacept in patients with acute symptoms of 
recurrent pericarditis (as assessed on a patient-reported scale) and systemic 
inflammation (as shown by an elevated C-reactive protein [CRP] level). Patients 
presenting with pericarditis recurrence while receiving standard therapy were 
enrolled in a 12-week run-in period, during which rilonacept was initiated and 
background medications were discontinued. Patients who had a clinical response 
(i.e., met prespecified response criteria) were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio 
to receive continued rilonacept monotherapy or placebo, administered 
subcutaneously once weekly. The primary efficacy end point, assessed with a Cox 
proportional-hazards model, was the time to the first pericarditis recurrence. 
Safety was also assessed.
RESULTS: A total of 86 patients with pericarditis pain and an elevated CRP level 
were enrolled in the run-in period. During the run-in period, the median time to 
resolution or near-resolution of pain was 5 days, and the median time to 
normalization of the CRP level was 7 days. A total of 61 patients underwent 
randomization. During the randomized-withdrawal period, there were too few 
recurrence events in the rilonacept group to allow for the median time to the 
first adjudicated recurrence to be calculated; the median time to the first 
adjudicated recurrence in the placebo group was 8.6 weeks (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 4.0 to 11.7; hazard ratio in a Cox proportional-hazards model, 
0.04; 95% CI, 0.01 to 0.18; P<0.001 by the log-rank test). During this period, 2 
of 30 patients (7%) in the rilonacept group had a pericarditis recurrence, as 
compared with 23 of 31 patients (74%) in the placebo group. In the run-in 
period, 4 patients had adverse events leading to the discontinuation of 
rilonacept therapy. The most common adverse events with rilonacept were 
injection-site reactions and upper respiratory tract infections.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with recurrent pericarditis, rilonacept led to rapid 
resolution of recurrent pericarditis episodes and to a significantly lower risk 
of pericarditis recurrence than placebo. (Funded by Kiniksa Pharmaceuticals; 
RHAPSODY ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT03737110.).

Copyright © 2020 Massachusetts Medical Society.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa2027892
PMID: 33200890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]