---
reference_id: PMID:27705267
title: "Daratumumab, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone for Multiple Myeloma."
authors:
- Dimopoulos MA
- Oriol A
- Nahi H
- San-Miguel J
- Bahlis NJ
- Usmani SZ
- Rabin N
- Orlowski RZ
- Komarnicki M
- Suzuki K
- Plesner T
- Yoon SS
- Ben Yehuda D
- Richardson PG
- Goldschmidt H
- Reece D
- Lisby S
- Khokhar NZ
- "O'Rourke L"
- Chiu C
- Qin X
- Guckert M
- Ahmadi T
- Moreau P
- POLLUX Investigators
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1607751
keywords:
- Aged
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/administration & dosage, adverse effects"
- "Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Dexamethasone/administration & dosage"
- Disease-Free Survival
- "Drug Resistance, Neoplasm"
- Humans
- Kaplan-Meier Estimate
- Lenalidomide
- Middle Aged
- "Multiple Myeloma/drug therapy, mortality"
- Recurrence
- "Thalidomide/administration & dosage, analogs & derivatives"
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Daratumumab, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone for Multiple Myeloma.
**Authors:** Dimopoulos MA, Oriol A, Nahi H, San-Miguel J, Bahlis NJ, Usmani SZ, Rabin N, Orlowski RZ, Komarnicki M, Suzuki K, Plesner T, Yoon SS, Ben Yehuda D, Richardson PG, Goldschmidt H, Reece D, Lisby S, Khokhar NZ, O'Rourke L, Chiu C, Qin X, Guckert M, Ahmadi T, Moreau P, POLLUX Investigators
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa1607751](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1607751)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2016 Oct 6;375(14):1319-1331. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1607751.

Daratumumab, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone for Multiple Myeloma.

Dimopoulos MA(1), Oriol A(1), Nahi H(1), San-Miguel J(1), Bahlis NJ(1), Usmani 
SZ(1), Rabin N(1), Orlowski RZ(1), Komarnicki M(1), Suzuki K(1), Plesner T(1), 
Yoon SS(1), Ben Yehuda D(1), Richardson PG(1), Goldschmidt H(1), Reece D(1), 
Lisby S(1), Khokhar NZ(1), O'Rourke L(1), Chiu C(1), Qin X(1), Guckert M(1), 
Ahmadi T(1), Moreau P(1); POLLUX Investigators.

Collaborators: Cochrane T, Ho J, Morton J, Prince M, De Prijck B, Delforge M, 
Meuleman N, Offner F, Van de Velde A, Van Eygen K, Wu KL, Bahlis N, Belch A, 
Kouroukis T, Lalancette M, Leblanc R, Minuk L, Reece D, Shustik J, Sutherland H, 
White D, Blau IW, Brugger W, Duerk H, Goldschmidt H, Jacobs G, Janzen V, 
Salwender H, Scheid C, Thomalla J, Abildgaard N, Plesner T, Salomo M, Bladé J, 
Hernandez Rivas JA, Hernandez M, Mateos MV, Rocafiguera AO, San-Miguel J, Arnaud 
J, Arnulf B, Attal M, Benboubker L, Chaoui D, Decaux O, Facon T, Hulin C, Karlin 
L, Macro M, Moreau P, Basu S, Cavenagh J, Cook G, Cook M, Jenner M, Kaiser M, 
Rabin N, Ramasamy K, Streetly M, Dimopoulos MA, Avivi I, Yehuda DB, Benyamini N, 
Bulvik S, Leiba M, Magen H, Suriu C, Aotsuka N, Fujisaki T, Iida S, Imada K, 
Ishikawa T, Kosugi H, Matsumoto M, Meguro K, Nagai H, Okamoto S, Shinagawa A, 
Sunami K, Suzuki K, Takamatu H, Takezako N, Eom HS, Kim JS, Kim K, Lee J, Min 
CK, Yoon DH, Yoon SS, Van de Donk N, Frosicki S, Hellmann A, Holojda J, Homenda 
W, Komarnicki M, Legiec W, Wrobel T, Khuazheva N, Loginov A, Medvedeva N, 
Myasnikov A, Pristupa A, Proydakov A, Rossiev V, Samarina I, Samoilova O, 
Voloshin S, Axelsson P, Blimark C, Carlson K, Flogegard M, Hansson M, Hareth N, 
Stromberg O, Chang CS, Chen TY, Huang SY, Lin TL, Yeh SP, Anderson L, Chari A, 
Jakubowiak A, Kaufman J, Kumar S, Laubach J, Mallik A, Mazumder A, Narang M, 
Orlowski R, Peles S, Tarantolo S, Tricot G, Usmani S, Yasenchak C.

Author information:
(1)From the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Athens (M.A.D.); 
Institut Català d'Oncologia, Institut Josep Carreras, Hospital Germans Trias I 
Pujol, Barcelona (A.O.), and Clínica Universidad de Navarra-Centro de 
Investigación Médica Aplicada, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria de Navarra, 
Pamplona (J.S.-M.) - both in Spain; Karolinska Institute and the Department of 
Medicine, Division of Hematology, Karolinska University Hospital at Huddinge, 
Stockholm (H.N.); Tom Baker Cancer Centre, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB 
(N.J.B.), and the Cancer Clinical Research Unit, Princess Margaret Cancer 
Centre, Toronto (D.R.) - both in Canada; Levine Cancer Institute-Carolinas 
HealthCare System, Charlotte, NC (S.Z.U.); the Department of Haematology, 
University College London Hospitals NHS Trust, London (N.R.); the Department of 
Lymphoma-Myeloma, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston 
(R.Z.O.); the Department of Hematology and Stem Cell Transplantation, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland (M.K.); the Department of 
Hematology, Japanese Red Cross Medical Center, Tokyo (K.S.); Vejle Hospital and 
University of Southern Denmark, Vejle (T.P.), and Genmab, Copenhagen (S.L.) - 
both in Denmark; the Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea (S.-S.Y.); the Hematology Department, 
Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, Jerusalem (D.B.Y.); Dana-Farber 
Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston (P.G.R.); University Hospital 
Heidelberg and the German Cancer Research Center, Heidelberg, Germany (H.G.); 
Janssen Research and Development, Spring House, PA (N.Z.K., L.O., C.C., X.Q., 
M.G., T.A.); and the Department of Hematology, University Hospital Hôtel-Dieu, 
Nantes, France (P.M.).

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2016 Oct 6;375(14):1390-1392. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe1609835.
    N Engl J Med. 2016 Dec 22;375(25):2497. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1613868.
    N Engl J Med. ;375(25):2497-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1613868.

BACKGROUND: Daratumumab showed promising efficacy alone and with lenalidomide 
and dexamethasone in a phase 1-2 study involving patients with relapsed or 
refractory multiple myeloma.
METHODS: In this phase 3 trial, we randomly assigned 569 patients with multiple 
myeloma who had received one or more previous lines of therapy to receive 
lenalidomide and dexamethasone either alone (control group) or in combination 
with daratumumab (daratumumab group). The primary end point was progression-free 
survival.
RESULTS: At a median follow-up of 13.5 months in a protocol-specified interim 
analysis, 169 events of disease progression or death were observed (in 53 of 286 
patients [18.5%] in the daratumumab group vs. 116 of 283 [41.0%] in the control 
group; hazard ratio, 0.37; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.27 to 0.52; P<0.001 
by stratified log-rank test). The Kaplan-Meier rate of progression-free survival 
at 12 months was 83.2% (95% CI, 78.3 to 87.2) in the daratumumab group, as 
compared with 60.1% (95% CI, 54.0 to 65.7) in the control group. A significantly 
higher rate of overall response was observed in the daratumumab group than in 
the control group (92.9% vs. 76.4%, P<0.001), as was a higher rate of complete 
response or better (43.1% vs. 19.2%, P<0.001). In the daratumumab group, 22.4% 
of the patients had results below the threshold for minimal residual disease (1 
tumor cell per 105 white cells), as compared with 4.6% of those in the control 
group (P<0.001); results below the threshold for minimal residual disease were 
associated with improved outcomes. The most common adverse events of grade 3 or 
4 during treatment were neutropenia (in 51.9% of the patients in the daratumumab 
group vs. 37.0% of those in the control group), thrombocytopenia (in 12.7% vs. 
13.5%), and anemia (in 12.4% vs. 19.6%). Daratumumab-associated infusion-related 
reactions occurred in 47.7% of the patients and were mostly of grade 1 or 2.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of daratumumab to lenalidomide and dexamethasone 
significantly lengthened progression-free survival among patients with relapsed 
or refractory multiple myeloma. Daratumumab was associated with infusion-related 
reactions and a higher rate of neutropenia than the control therapy. (Funded by 
Janssen Research and Development; POLLUX ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT02076009 
.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1607751
PMID: 27705267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]