---
reference_id: PMID:30625070
title: Caplacizumab Treatment for Acquired Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura.
authors:
- Scully M
- Cataland SR
- Peyvandi F
- Coppo P
- Knöbl P
- Kremer Hovinga JA
- Metjian A
- de la Rubia J
- Pavenski K
- Callewaert F
- Biswas D
- De Winter H
- Zeldin RK
- HERCULES Investigators
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2019'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1806311
keywords:
- ADAMTS13 Protein/metabolism
- Adolescent
- Adult
- Aged
- Body Mass Index
- Double-Blind Method
- Female
- "Fibrinolytic Agents/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Gingival Diseases/chemically induced
- Hemorrhage/chemically induced
- Humans
- Intention to Treat Analysis
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Plasma Exchange
- Platelet Count
- "Purpura, Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic/drug therapy, mortality, therapy"
- "Single-Domain Antibodies/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Young Adult
- "von Willebrand Factor/antagonists & inhibitors"
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Caplacizumab Treatment for Acquired Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura.
**Authors:** Scully M, Cataland SR, Peyvandi F, Coppo P, Knöbl P, Kremer Hovinga JA, Metjian A, de la Rubia J, Pavenski K, Callewaert F, Biswas D, De Winter H, Zeldin RK, HERCULES Investigators
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2019)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa1806311](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1806311)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2019 Jan 24;380(4):335-346. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1806311. Epub
2019  Jan 9.

Caplacizumab Treatment for Acquired Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura.

Scully M(1), Cataland SR(1), Peyvandi F(1), Coppo P(1), Knöbl P(1), Kremer 
Hovinga JA(1), Metjian A(1), de la Rubia J(1), Pavenski K(1), Callewaert F(1), 
Biswas D(1), De Winter H(1), Zeldin RK(1); HERCULES Investigators.

Collaborators: Bird R, Fay K, He S, Mason K, Shortt J, Tan P, Breems D, Dierickx 
D, Gilles A, Lambert C, Clark W, Kassis J, Robinson S, Gumulec J, Hlusi A, Maly 
J, Mayer J, Benhamou Y, Chantepie S, Hamidou M, Mariotte E, Poullin P, Presne C, 
Provot F, Savey L, Bommer M, Chemnitz J, Feldkamp T, Fischereder M, Haas C, Hugo 
C, Petros S, Wanner C, Wiesener M, Boda Z, Reti M, Akria L, Ellis M, Kalish Y, 
Kirgner I, Nadir Y, Rahimi-Levene N, Spectre G, Di Bona E, Giuffrida G, Sica S, 
Visani G, Cid J, Goterris Viciedo R, Martin Sanchez J, Pascual Izquierdo C, 
Valcarcel Ferreiras D, Studt JD, Fijnheer R, te Boekhorst P, Vreugdenhil G, 
Zwaginga JJ, Aktan M, Arslan O, Kabukcu Hacioglu S, Kaynar L, Sahin F, Sonmez M, 
Clark A, Dutt T, McDonald V, Antun A, Blinder M, Farland A, Go R, Goodarzi K, 
Greenberg C, Khawandanah M, Kiss J, Kraut E, Lerner R, Liles D, McCrae K, Pham 
H, Raval J, Refaai M, Rice L, Rodgers G, Weitz I, Sarode R, Friedman K, 
Gadisseur A, Hornig F, Kassner S, Mahaffey K, Jilma B.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Haematology, University College London Hospitals, 
Cardiometabolic Program, National Institute for Health Research UCLH-UCL 
Biomedical Research Center, London (M.S.); the Division of Hematology, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Ohio State University, Columbus (S.R.C.); 
Fondazione Istituti di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico Ca' Granda 
Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Angelo Bianchi Bonomi Hemophilia and Thrombosis 
Center, and the Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, University of 
Milan, Milan (F.P.); the Department of Hematology, Saint-Antoine University 
Hospital, Paris (P.C.); the Department of Medicine 1, Division of Hematology and 
Hemostasis, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna (P.K.); the Department of 
Hematology and Central Hematology Laboratory, Inselspital, Bern University 
Hospital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland (J.A.K.H.); the Division of 
Hematology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC (A.M.); the 
Hematology Department, Universidad Católica de Valencia Hospital Dr. Peset, 
Valencia, Spain (J.R.); the Departments of Medicine and Laboratory Medicine, St. 
Michael's Hospital and University of Toronto, Toronto (K.P.); and Clinical 
Development, Ablynx, Zwijnaarde, Belgium (F.C., D.B., H.D.W., R.K.Z.).

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2019 May 2;380(18):e32. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1902336.
    N Engl J Med. 2019 May 2;380(18):e32. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1902336.

BACKGROUND: In acquired thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), an 
immune-mediated deficiency of the von Willebrand factor-cleaving protease 
ADAMTS13 allows unrestrained adhesion of von Willebrand factor multimers to 
platelets and microthrombosis, which result in thrombocytopenia, hemolytic 
anemia, and tissue ischemia. Caplacizumab, an anti-von Willebrand factor 
humanized, bivalent variable-domain-only immunoglobulin fragment, inhibits 
interaction between von Willebrand factor multimers and platelets.
METHODS: In this double-blind, controlled trial, we randomly assigned 145 
patients with TTP to receive caplacizumab (10-mg intravenous loading bolus, 
followed by 10 mg daily subcutaneously) or placebo during plasma exchange and 
for 30 days thereafter. The primary outcome was the time to normalization of the 
platelet count, with discontinuation of daily plasma exchange within 5 days 
thereafter. Key secondary outcomes included a composite of TTP-related death, 
recurrence of TTP, or a thromboembolic event during the trial treatment period; 
recurrence of TTP at any time during the trial; refractory TTP; and 
normalization of organ-damage markers.
RESULTS: The median time to normalization of the platelet count was shorter with 
caplacizumab than with placebo (2.69 days [95% confidence interval {CI}, 1.89 to 
2.83] vs. 2.88 days [95% CI, 2.68 to 3.56], P=0.01), and patients who received 
caplacizumab were 1.55 times as likely to have a normalization of the platelet 
count as those who received placebo. The percentage of patients with a composite 
outcome event was 74% lower with caplacizumab than with placebo (12% vs. 49%, 
P<0.001). The percentage of patients who had a recurrence of TTP at any time 
during the trial was 67% lower with caplacizumab than with placebo (12% vs. 38%, 
P<0.001). Refractory disease developed in no patients in the caplacizumab group 
and in three patients in the placebo group. Patients who received caplacizumab 
needed less plasma exchange and had a shorter hospitalization than those who 
received placebo. The most common adverse event was mucocutaneous bleeding, 
which was reported in 65% of the patients in the caplacizumab group and in 48% 
in the placebo group. During the trial treatment period, three patients in the 
placebo group died. One patient in the caplacizumab group died from cerebral 
ischemia after the end of the treatment period.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with TTP, treatment with caplacizumab was associated 
with faster normalization of the platelet count; a lower incidence of a 
composite of TTP-related death, recurrence of TTP, or a thromboembolic event 
during the treatment period; and a lower rate of recurrence of TTP during the 
trial than placebo. (Funded by Ablynx; HERCULES ClinicalTrials.gov number, 
NCT02553317 .).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1806311
PMID: 30625070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]