---
reference_id: PMID:27299809
title: Phase 3 Trials of Ixekizumab in Moderate-to-Severe Plaque Psoriasis.
authors:
- Gordon KB
- Blauvelt A
- Papp KA
- Langley RG
- Luger T
- Ohtsuki M
- Reich K
- Amato D
- Ball SG
- Braun DK
- Cameron GS
- Erickson J
- Konrad RJ
- Muram TM
- Nickoloff BJ
- Osuntokun OO
- Secrest RJ
- Zhao F
- Mallbris L
- Leonardi CL
- UNCOVER-1 Study Group
- UNCOVER-2 Study Group
- UNCOVER-3 Study Group
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '2016'
doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1512711
keywords:
- Adult
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Candidiasis/etiology
- Female
- Humans
- Inflammatory Bowel Diseases/chemically induced
- Intention to Treat Analysis
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Neutropenia/chemically induced
- Psoriasis/drug therapy
- Severity of Illness Index
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Phase 3 Trials of Ixekizumab in Moderate-to-Severe Plaque Psoriasis.
**Authors:** Gordon KB, Blauvelt A, Papp KA, Langley RG, Luger T, Ohtsuki M, Reich K, Amato D, Ball SG, Braun DK, Cameron GS, Erickson J, Konrad RJ, Muram TM, Nickoloff BJ, Osuntokun OO, Secrest RJ, Zhao F, Mallbris L, Leonardi CL, UNCOVER-1 Study Group, UNCOVER-2 Study Group, UNCOVER-3 Study Group
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (2016)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJMoa1512711](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa1512711)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 2016 Jul 28;375(4):345-56. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1512711. Epub 2016
 Jun 8.

Phase 3 Trials of Ixekizumab in Moderate-to-Severe Plaque Psoriasis.

Gordon KB(1), Blauvelt A(1), Papp KA(1), Langley RG(1), Luger T(1), Ohtsuki 
M(1), Reich K(1), Amato D(1), Ball SG(1), Braun DK(1), Cameron GS(1), Erickson 
J(1), Konrad RJ(1), Muram TM(1), Nickoloff BJ(1), Osuntokun OO(1), Secrest 
RJ(1), Zhao F(1), Mallbris L(1), Leonardi CL(1); UNCOVER-1 Study Group; 
UNCOVER-2 Study Group; UNCOVER-3 Study Group.

Collaborators: Harris HH, Matheson RT, Bukhalo M, Tu JH, Crowley JJ, Grande KK, 
Nasir A, Elewski BE, Solomon JA, Stratmann L, Buettner C, Dirschka TP, Simon MR, 
Ulrich J, Grigat C, Augustin M, Khariouzov A, Sattler G, Ockenfels HM, Behringer 
FR, Wiltz H, Flores F, Kuettel KD, Thorla IH Jr, Moore JK, Waterman GL, Murakawa 
GJ, Fretzin SA, Frankel EH, Dhawan SS, Leszniewska L, Poznanska M, 
Sobieszek-Kundro A, Chodorowska GM, Turek-Urasinska K, Maleszka R, Kaszuba A, 
Rajzer L, Szymanska EB, Rudnicka L, Korman NJ, Weisman JD, Truett AP, Jacqmein 
J, Cohen SR, Heller GL, Jenkin PJ, Marcadis A, Tiplica GS, 
Aghinitei-Zbranca-Toporas A, Ianosi SL, Florea I, Zachariae C, Iversen L, 
Patrizi A, Romanelli M, Griffiths C, Berth-Jones J, Foerster J, Savin RC, Nelson 
CG, Guenther LC, Albrecht LE, Hong CH, Katz A, Raman M, Adam DN, Butt A, Shumack 
SP, Gebauer KA, Spelman LJ, Sidhu SK, Freeman MG, Foley PA, Kemeny L, Remenyik 
E, Karolyi Z, Bourcier M, Carey WD, Taraska V, Haaland D, Gupta AK, Maari C, 
Toth DP, Hong CH, Albrecht LE, Sebastian M, Philipp S, Kaufmann R, Thaci D, 
Werfel TA, Parise L, Haase I, Staubach-Renz P, Imafuku S, Nakayama J, Terui T, 
Nakajima H, Sano S.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Dermatology, Northwestern University Feinberg School 
of Medicine, Chicago (K.B.G.); Oregon Medical Research Center, Portland (A.B.); 
K. Papp Clinical Research and Probity Medical Research, Waterloo, ON (K.A.P.), 
and the Department of Medicine, Division of Dermatology, Dalhousie University, 
Halifax, NS (R.G.L.) - both in Canada; the Department of Dermatology, University 
of Münster, Münster (T.L.), and SCIderm Research Institute and Dermatologikum 
Hamburg, Hamburg (K.R.) - both in Germany; the Department of Dermatology, Jichi 
Medical University, Shimotsuke-shi, Japan (M.O.); Lilly Research Laboratories, 
Eli Lilly, Indianapolis (D.A., S.G.B., D.K.B., G.S.C., J.E., R.J.K., T.M.M., 
B.J.N., O.O.O., R.J.S., F.Z., L.M.); and the Department of Dermatology, Saint 
Louis University School of Medicine, St. Louis (C.L.L.).

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2016 Nov 24;375(21):2102. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1610828.
    N Engl J Med. 2016 Nov 24;375(21):2101-2102. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1610828.

BACKGROUND: Two phase 3 trials (UNCOVER-2 and UNCOVER-3) showed that at 12 weeks 
of treatment, ixekizumab, a monoclonal antibody against interleukin-17A, was 
superior to placebo and etanercept in the treatment of moderate-to-severe 
psoriasis. We report the 60-week data from the UNCOVER-2 and UNCOVER-3 trials, 
as well as 12-week and 60-week data from a third phase 3 trial, UNCOVER-1.
METHODS: We randomly assigned 1296 patients in the UNCOVER-1 trial, 1224 
patients in the UNCOVER-2 trial, and 1346 patients in the UNCOVER-3 trial to 
receive subcutaneous injections of placebo (placebo group), 80 mg of ixekizumab 
every 2 weeks after a starting dose of 160 mg (2-wk dosing group), or 80 mg of 
ixekizumab every 4 weeks after a starting dose of 160 mg (4-wk dosing group). 
Additional cohorts in the UNCOVER-2 and UNCOVER-3 trials were randomly assigned 
to receive 50 mg of etanercept twice weekly. At week 12 in the UNCOVER-3 trial, 
the patients entered a long-term extension period during which they received 80 
mg of ixekizumab every 4 weeks through week 60; at week 12 in the UNCOVER-1 and 
UNCOVER-2 trials, the patients who had a response to ixekizumab (defined as a 
static Physicians Global Assessment [sPGA] score of 0 [clear] or 1 [minimal 
psoriasis]) were randomly reassigned to receive placebo, 80 mg of ixekizumab 
every 4 weeks, or 80 mg of ixekizumab every 12 weeks through week 60. Coprimary 
end points were the percentage of patients who had a score on the sPGA of 0 or 1 
and a 75% or greater reduction from baseline in Psoriasis Area and Severity 
Index (PASI 75) at week 12.
RESULTS: In the UNCOVER-1 trial, at week 12, the patients had better responses 
to ixekizumab than to placebo; in the 2-wk dosing group, 81.8% had an sPGA score 
of 0 or 1 and 89.1% had a PASI 75 response; in the 4-wk dosing group, the 
respective rates were 76.4% and 82.6%; and in the placebo group, the rates were 
3.2% and 3.9% (P<0.001 for all comparisons of ixekizumab with placebo). In the 
UNCOVER-1 and UNCOVER-2 trials, among the patients who were randomly reassigned 
at week 12 to receive 80 mg of ixekizumab every 4 weeks, 80 mg of ixekizumab 
every 12 weeks, or placebo, an sPGA score of 0 or 1 was maintained by 73.8%, 
39.0%, and 7.0% of the patients, respectively. Patients in the UNCOVER-3 trial 
received continuous treatment of ixekizumab from weeks 0 through 60, and at week 
60, at least 73% had an sPGA score of 0 or 1 and at least 80% had a PASI 75 
response. Adverse events reported during ixekizumab use included neutropenia, 
candidal infections, and inflammatory bowel disease.
CONCLUSIONS: In three phase 3 trials involving patients with psoriasis, 
ixekizumab was effective through 60 weeks of treatment. As with any treatment, 
the benefits need to be weighed against the risks of adverse events. The 
efficacy and safety of ixekizumab beyond 60 weeks of treatment are not yet 
known. (Funded by Eli Lilly; UNCOVER-1, UNCOVER-2, and UNCOVER-3 
ClinicalTrials.gov numbers NCT01474512, NCT01597245, and NCT01646177, 
respectively.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1512711
PMID: 27299809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]