---
reference_id: PMID:23084240
title: Intravitreal aflibercept (VEGF trap-eye) in wet age-related macular degeneration.
authors:
- Heier JS
- Brown DM
- Chong V
- Korobelnik JF
- Kaiser PK
- Nguyen QD
- Kirchhof B
- Ho A
- Ogura Y
- Yancopoulos GD
- Stahl N
- Vitti R
- Berliner AJ
- Soo Y
- Anderesi M
- Groetzbach G
- Sommerauer B
- Sandbrink R
- Simader C
- Schmidt-Erfurth U
- VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 Study Groups
journal: Ophthalmology
year: '2012'
doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.09.006
keywords:
- Aged
- Angiogenesis Inhibitors/therapeutic use
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/therapeutic use"
- Double-Blind Method
- Female
- Fluorescein Angiography
- Humans
- Intravitreal Injections
- Male
- Prospective Studies
- Ranibizumab
- "Receptors, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor"
- "Recombinant Fusion Proteins/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Retreatment
- Sickness Impact Profile
- Treatment Outcome
- Visual Acuity/physiology
- "Wet Macular Degeneration/diagnosis, drug therapy, physiopathology"
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Intravitreal aflibercept (VEGF trap-eye) in wet age-related macular degeneration.
**Authors:** Heier JS, Brown DM, Chong V, Korobelnik JF, Kaiser PK, Nguyen QD, Kirchhof B, Ho A, Ogura Y, Yancopoulos GD, Stahl N, Vitti R, Berliner AJ, Soo Y, Anderesi M, Groetzbach G, Sommerauer B, Sandbrink R, Simader C, Schmidt-Erfurth U, VIEW 1 and VIEW 2 Study Groups
**Journal:** Ophthalmology (2012)
**DOI:** [10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.09.006](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.09.006)

## Content

1. Ophthalmology. 2012 Dec;119(12):2537-48. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.09.006.
Epub  2012 Oct 17.

Intravitreal aflibercept (VEGF trap-eye) in wet age-related macular 
degeneration.

Heier JS(1), Brown DM, Chong V, Korobelnik JF, Kaiser PK, Nguyen QD, Kirchhof B, 
Ho A, Ogura Y, Yancopoulos GD, Stahl N, Vitti R, Berliner AJ, Soo Y, Anderesi M, 
Groetzbach G, Sommerauer B, Sandbrink R, Simader C, Schmidt-Erfurth U; VIEW 1 
and VIEW 2 Study Groups.

Author information:
(1)Ophthalmic Consultants of Boston and Tufts University School of Medicine, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Erratum in
    Ophthalmology. 2013 Jan;120(1):209-10.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2014 Jan;121(1):e5-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.09.018.
    Ophthalmology. 2014 Jan;121(1):e5. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.09.019.
    Ophthalmology. 2014 Jan;121(1):e4. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.09.020.
    Ophthalmology. 2014 Jan;121(1):e5-e6.

OBJECTIVE: Two similarly designed, phase-3 studies (VEGF Trap-Eye: Investigation 
of Efficacy and Safety in Wet AMD [VIEW 1, VIEW 2]) of neovascular age-related 
macular degeneration (AMD) compared monthly and every-2-month dosing of 
intravitreal aflibercept injection (VEGF Trap-Eye; Regeneron, Tarrytown, NY, and 
Bayer HealthCare, Berlin, Germany) with monthly ranibizumab.
DESIGN: Double-masked, multicenter, parallel-group, active-controlled, 
randomized trials.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients (n = 2419) with active, subfoveal, choroidal 
neovascularization (CNV) lesions (or juxtafoveal lesions with leakage affecting 
the fovea) secondary to AMD.
INTERVENTION: Patients were randomized to intravitreal aflibercept 0.5 mg 
monthly (0.5q4), 2 mg monthly (2q4), 2 mg every 2 months after 3 initial monthly 
doses (2q8), or ranibizumab 0.5 mg monthly (Rq4).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary end point was noninferiority (margin of 10%) 
of the aflibercept regimens to ranibizumab in the proportion of patients 
maintaining vision at week 52 (losing <15 letters on Early Treatment Diabetic 
Retinopathy Study [ETDRS] chart). Other key end points included change in 
best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and anatomic measures.
RESULTS: All aflibercept groups were noninferior and clinically equivalent to 
monthly ranibizumab for the primary end point (the 2q4, 0.5q4, and 2q8 regimens 
were 95.1%, 95.9%, and 95.1%, respectively, for VIEW 1, and 95.6%, 96.3%, and 
95.6%, respectively, for VIEW 2, whereas monthly ranibizumab was 94.4% in both 
studies). In a prespecified integrated analysis of the 2 studies, all 
aflibercept regimens were within 0.5 letters of the reference ranibizumab for 
mean change in BCVA; all aflibercept regimens also produced similar improvements 
in anatomic measures. Ocular and systemic adverse events were similar across 
treatment groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Intravitreal aflibercept dosed monthly or every 2 months after 3 
initial monthly doses produced similar efficacy and safety outcomes as monthly 
ranibizumab. These studies demonstrate that aflibercept is an effective 
treatment for AMD, with the every-2-month regimen offering the potential to 
reduce the risk from monthly intravitreal injections and the burden of monthly 
monitoring.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after 
the references.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.09.006
PMID: 23084240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]