---
reference_id: PMID:20921465
title: "Randomized, phase III trial of panitumumab with infusional fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX4) versus FOLFOX4 alone as first-line treatment in patients with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer: the PRIME study."
authors:
- Douillard JY
- Siena S
- Cassidy J
- Tabernero J
- Burkes R
- Barugel M
- Humblet Y
- Bodoky G
- Cunningham D
- Jassem J
- Rivera F
- Kocákova I
- Ruff P
- Błasińska-Morawiec M
- Šmakal M
- Canon JL
- Rother M
- Oliner KS
- Wolf M
- Gansert J
journal: J Clin Oncol
year: '2010'
doi: 10.1200/JCO.2009.27.4860
keywords:
- Adult
- Aged
- "Aged, 80 and over"
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/administration & dosage, adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols/administration & dosage, adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Biomarkers, Tumor/genetics"
- "Chemotherapy, Adjuvant"
- "Colorectal Neoplasms/drug therapy, genetics, metabolism, mortality, pathology"
- Disease-Free Survival
- Drug Administration Schedule
- "ErbB Receptors/antagonists & inhibitors"
- Female
- "Fluorouracil/administration & dosage, adverse effects"
- "Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic"
- Humans
- "Infusions, Intravenous"
- Kaplan-Meier Estimate
- "Leucovorin/administration & dosage, adverse effects"
- Male
- Middle Aged
- Mutation
- Neoplasm Staging
- "Organoplatinum Compounds/administration & dosage, adverse effects"
- Panitumumab
- Predictive Value of Tests
- Prospective Studies
- Proto-Oncogene Proteins/genetics
- Proto-Oncogene Proteins p21(ras)
- Treatment Outcome
- ras Proteins/genetics
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Randomized, phase III trial of panitumumab with infusional fluorouracil, leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX4) versus FOLFOX4 alone as first-line treatment in patients with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer: the PRIME study.
**Authors:** Douillard JY, Siena S, Cassidy J, Tabernero J, Burkes R, Barugel M, Humblet Y, Bodoky G, Cunningham D, Jassem J, Rivera F, Kocákova I, Ruff P, Błasińska-Morawiec M, Šmakal M, Canon JL, Rother M, Oliner KS, Wolf M, Gansert J
**Journal:** J Clin Oncol (2010)
**DOI:** [10.1200/JCO.2009.27.4860](https://doi.org/10.1200/JCO.2009.27.4860)

## Content

1. J Clin Oncol. 2010 Nov 1;28(31):4697-705. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2009.27.4860. Epub 
2010 Oct 4.

Randomized, phase III trial of panitumumab with infusional fluorouracil, 
leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX4) versus FOLFOX4 alone as first-line 
treatment in patients with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer: 
the PRIME study.

Douillard JY(1), Siena S, Cassidy J, Tabernero J, Burkes R, Barugel M, Humblet 
Y, Bodoky G, Cunningham D, Jassem J, Rivera F, Kocákova I, Ruff P, 
Błasińska-Morawiec M, Šmakal M, Canon JL, Rother M, Oliner KS, Wolf M, Gansert 
J.

Author information:
(1)Centre René Gauducheau, Nantes, France. jy-douillard@nantes.fnclcc.fr

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2010 Nov 1;28(31):4668-70. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2010.29.3407.
    Future Oncol. 2011 Feb;7(2):223-6. doi: 10.2217/fon.10.181.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2010 Dec;7(12):672. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2010.176.

PURPOSE: Panitumumab, a fully human anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) 
monoclonal antibody that improves progression-free survival (PFS), is approved 
as monotherapy for patients with chemotherapy-refractory metastatic colorectal 
cancer (mCRC). The Panitumumab Randomized Trial in Combination With Chemotherapy 
for Metastatic Colorectal Cancer to Determine Efficacy (PRIME) was designed to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of panitumumab plus infusional fluorouracil, 
leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX4) versus FOLFOX4 alone as initial treatment 
for mCRC.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this multicenter, phase III trial, patients with no 
prior chemotherapy for mCRC, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance 
status of 0 to 2, and available tissue for biomarker testing were randomly 
assigned 1:1 to receive panitumumab-FOLFOX4 versus FOLFOX4. The primary end 
point was PFS; overall survival (OS) was a secondary end point. Results were 
prospectively analyzed on an intent-to-treat basis by tumor KRAS status.
RESULTS: KRAS results were available for 93% of the 1,183 patients randomly 
assigned. In the wild-type (WT) KRAS stratum, panitumumab-FOLFOX4 significantly 
improved PFS compared with FOLFOX4 (median PFS, 9.6 v 8.0 months, respectively; 
hazard ratio [HR], 0.80; 95% CI, 0.66 to 0.97; P = .02). A nonsignificant 
increase in OS was also observed for panitumumab-FOLFOX4 versus FOLFOX4 (median 
OS, 23.9 v 19.7 months, respectively; HR, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.67 to 1.02; P = .072). 
In the mutant KRAS stratum, PFS was significantly reduced in the 
panitumumab-FOLFOX4 arm versus the FOLFOX4 arm (HR, 1.29; 95% CI, 1.04 to 1.62; 
P = .02), and median OS was 15.5 months versus 19.3 months, respectively (HR, 
1.24; 95% CI, 0.98 to 1.57; P = .068). Adverse event rates were generally 
comparable across arms with the exception of toxicities known to be associated 
with anti-EGFR therapy.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that panitumumab-FOLFOX4 was well tolerated 
and significantly improved PFS in patients with WT KRAS tumors and underscores 
the importance of KRAS testing for patients with mCRC.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2009.27.4860
PMID: 20921465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]