---
reference_id: PMID:38015220
title: "Toripalimab Plus Chemotherapy for Recurrent or Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma: The JUPITER-02 Randomized Clinical Trial."
authors:
- Mai HQ
- Chen QY
- Chen D
- Hu C
- Yang K
- Wen J
- Li J
- Shi Y
- Jin F
- Xu R
- Pan J
- Qu S
- Li P
- Hu C
- Liu YC
- Jiang Y
- He X
- Wang HM
- Lim WT
- Liao W
- He X
- Chen X
- Wang S
- Yuan X
- Li Q
- Lin X
- Jing S
- Chen Y
- Lu Y
- Hsieh CY
- Yang MH
- Yen CJ
- Samol J
- Luo X
- Wang X
- Tang X
- Feng H
- Yao S
- Keegan P
- Xu RH
journal: JAMA
year: '2023'
doi: 10.1001/jama.2023.20181
keywords:
- Adult
- Female
- Humans
- Male
- Middle Aged
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized/administration & dosage, adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Antineoplastic Agents/administration & dosage, adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Cisplatin/administration & dosage, adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Double-Blind Method
- "Gemcitabine/administration & dosage, adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma/drug therapy, mortality, pathology, secondary"
- "Nasopharyngeal Neoplasms/drug therapy, mortality, pathology, secondary"
- "Neoplasm Recurrence, Local/drug therapy, mortality, pathology"
- United States
- Internationality
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Toripalimab Plus Chemotherapy for Recurrent or Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma: The JUPITER-02 Randomized Clinical Trial.
**Authors:** Mai HQ, Chen QY, Chen D, Hu C, Yang K, Wen J, Li J, Shi Y, Jin F, Xu R, Pan J, Qu S, Li P, Hu C, Liu YC, Jiang Y, He X, Wang HM, Lim WT, Liao W, He X, Chen X, Wang S, Yuan X, Li Q, Lin X, Jing S, Chen Y, Lu Y, Hsieh CY, Yang MH, Yen CJ, Samol J, Luo X, Wang X, Tang X, Feng H, Yao S, Keegan P, Xu RH
**Journal:** JAMA (2023)
**DOI:** [10.1001/jama.2023.20181](https://doi.org/10.1001/jama.2023.20181)

## Content

1. JAMA. 2023 Nov 28;330(20):1961-1970. doi: 10.1001/jama.2023.20181.

Toripalimab Plus Chemotherapy for Recurrent or Metastatic Nasopharyngeal 
Carcinoma: The JUPITER-02 Randomized Clinical Trial.

Mai HQ(1), Chen QY(1), Chen D(2), Hu C(3), Yang K(4), Wen J(5), Li J(6), Shi 
Y(7), Jin F(8), Xu R(9), Pan J(10), Qu S(11), Li P(12), Hu C(13), Liu YC(14), 
Jiang Y(15), He X(16), Wang HM(17), Lim WT(18), Liao W(19), He X(20), Chen 
X(21), Wang S(22), Yuan X(23), Li Q(24), Lin X(25), Jing S(26), Chen Y(27), Lu 
Y(28), Hsieh CY(29), Yang MH(30), Yen CJ(31), Samol J(32), Luo X(33), Wang 
X(33), Tang X(34), Feng H(33)(34), Yao S(33)(34), Keegan P(34), Xu RH(35).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in 
South China, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Diagnosis and 
Therapy, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou.
(2)Affiliated Cancer Hospital & Institute of Guangzhou Medical University, 
Guangzhou, China.
(3)Fudan University Cancer Center, Shanghai, China.
(4)Union Hospital Tongji Medical College Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan, China.
(5)Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, China.
(6)Jiangxi Cancer Hospital, Nanchang, China.
(7)Hunan Cancer Hospital and the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Xiangya School of 
Medicine, Changsha, China.
(8)The Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Guizhou Medical University, Guiyang, China.
(9)Shenzhen People's Hospital, Shenzhen, China.
(10)Fujian Provincial Cancer Hospital, Fuzhou, China.
(11)The People's Hospital of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Nanning, China.
(12)West China Hospital of Sichuan University, Chengdu.
(13)The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, Changsha, China.
(14)Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(15)Cancer Hospital of Shantou University Medical College, Shantou, China.
(16)Jiangsu Cancer Hospital, Nanjing, China.
(17)Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(18)National Cancer Centre, Singapore City, Singapore.
(19)Nanfang Hospital, Guangzhou, China.
(20)Cancer Hospital Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical 
College, Beijing.
(21)Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou, China.
(22)The Fifth Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University, Zhuhai, China.
(23)Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan, China.
(24)Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai, China.
(25)Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, China.
(26)The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University Hebei Cancer Hospital, 
Shijiazhuang, China.
(27)Hainan General Hospital, Haikou, China.
(28)Liuzhou Worker's Hospital, Liuzhou, China.
(29)China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(30)Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(31)National Cheng Kung University Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan.
(32)Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Singapore City, Singapore.
(33)Shanghai Junshi Biosciences, Shanghai, China.
(34)TopAlliance Biosciences, Rockville, Maryland.
(35)Department of Medical Oncology, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South 
China, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Diagnosis and 
Therapy, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2023 Nov 28;330(20):1954-1955. doi: 10.1001/jama.2023.22465.
    Lancet. 2024 Jun 22;403(10445):2667-2669. doi: 
10.1016/S0140-6736(24)00810-9.

IMPORTANCE: There are currently no therapies approved by the US Food and Drug 
Administration for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Gemcitabine-cisplatin is the 
current standard of care for the first-line treatment of recurrent or metastatic 
NPC (RM-NPC).
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether toripalimab in combination with 
gemcitabine-cisplatin will significantly improve progression-free survival and 
overall survival as first-line treatment for RM-NPC, compared with 
gemcitabine-cisplatin alone.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: JUPITER-02 is an international, multicenter, 
randomized, double-blind phase 3 study conducted in NPC-endemic regions, 
including mainland China, Taiwan, and Singapore. From November 10, 2018, to 
October 20, 2019, 289 patients with RM-NPC with no prior systemic chemotherapy 
in the RM setting were enrolled from 35 participating centers.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomized (1:1) to receive toripalimab (240 mg 
[n = 146]) or placebo (n = 143) in combination with gemcitabine-cisplatin for up 
to 6 cycles, followed by maintenance with toripalimab or placebo until disease 
progression, intolerable toxicity, or completion of 2 years of treatment.
MAIN OUTCOME: Progression-free survival as assessed by a blinded independent 
central review. Secondary end points included objective response rate, overall 
survival, progression-free survival assessed by investigator, duration of 
response, and safety.
RESULTS: Among the 289 patients enrolled (median age, 46 [IQR, 38-53 years; 17% 
female), at the final progression-free survival analysis, toripalimab treatment 
had a significantly longer progression-free survival than placebo (median, 21.4 
vs 8.2 months; HR, 0.52 [95% CI, 0.37-0.73]). With a median survival follow-up 
of 36.0 months, a significant improvement in overall survival was identified 
with toripalimab over placebo (hazard ratio [HR], 0.63 [95% CI, 0.45-0.89]; 
2-sided P = .008). The median overall survival was not reached in the 
toripalimab group, while it was 33.7 months in the placebo group. A consistent 
effect on overall survival, favoring toripalimab, was found in subgroups with 
high and low PD-L1 (programmed death-ligand 1) expression. The incidence of all 
adverse events, grade 3 or greater adverse events, and fatal adverse events were 
similar between the 2 groups. However, adverse events leading to discontinuation 
of toripalimab or placebo (11.6% vs 4.9%), immune-related adverse events (54.1% 
vs 21.7%), and grade 3 or greater immune-related adverse events (9.6% vs 1.4%) 
were more frequent in the toripalimab group.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The addition of toripalimab to chemotherapy as 
first-line treatment for RM-NPC provided statistically significant and 
clinically meaningful progression-free survival and overall survival benefits 
compared with chemotherapy alone, with a manageable safety profile. These 
findings support the use of toripalimab plus gemcitabine-cisplatin as the new 
standard of care for this patient population.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03581786.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2023.20181
PMCID: PMC10685882
PMID: 38015220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr Lim 
reported receiving grants from Bristol Myers Squibb; receiving nonfinancial 
support from Merck Serono and Taiho; and receiving personal fees from Merck 
Sharp & Dohme, Janssen, Pfizer, Boehringer-Ingelheim, and Daiichi-Sankyo. Dr Luo 
reported receiving personal fees from Shanghai Junshi Biosciences. Dr X. Wang 
reported receiving personal fees from Shanghai Junshi Biosciences. Dr Feng 
reported receiving personal fees from Shanghai Junshi Biosciences. Dr Yao 
reported receiving personal fees from Shanghai Junshi Biosciences. Dr Keegan 
reported holding stock options in Shanghai Junshi Bioscience. Dr R.-H. Xu 
reported receiving speaker fees from Bristol Myers Squibb and Merck Sharp & 
Dohme and receiving personal fees for advisory meetings from Hengrui, Beigene, 
Astellas, Merck, and Junshi. No other disclosures were reported.