---
reference_id: PMID:9321530
title: "A short-term study of chimeric monoclonal antibody cA2 to tumor necrosis factor alpha for Crohn's disease. Crohn's Disease cA2 Study Group."
authors:
- Targan SR
- Hanauer SB
- van Deventer SJ
- Mayer L
- Present DH
- Braakman T
- DeWoody KL
- Schaible TF
- Rutgeerts PJ
journal: N Engl J Med
year: '1997'
doi: 10.1056/NEJM199710093371502
keywords:
- Adult
- "Antibodies, Monoclonal/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- "Crohn Disease/immunology, therapy"
- "Dose-Response Relationship, Drug"
- Double-Blind Method
- Female
- Humans
- Infliximab
- "Infusions, Intravenous"
- Male
- "Recombinant Fusion Proteins/adverse effects, therapeutic use"
- Remission Induction
- Treatment Outcome
- Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha/immunology
content_type: abstract_only
---

# A short-term study of chimeric monoclonal antibody cA2 to tumor necrosis factor alpha for Crohn's disease. Crohn's Disease cA2 Study Group.
**Authors:** Targan SR, Hanauer SB, van Deventer SJ, Mayer L, Present DH, Braakman T, DeWoody KL, Schaible TF, Rutgeerts PJ
**Journal:** N Engl J Med (1997)
**DOI:** [10.1056/NEJM199710093371502](https://doi.org/10.1056/NEJM199710093371502)

## Content

1. N Engl J Med. 1997 Oct 9;337(15):1029-35. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199710093371502.

A short-term study of chimeric monoclonal antibody cA2 to tumor necrosis factor 
alpha for Crohn's disease. Crohn's Disease cA2 Study Group.

Targan SR(1), Hanauer SB, van Deventer SJ, Mayer L, Present DH, Braakman T, 
DeWoody KL, Schaible TF, Rutgeerts PJ.

Author information:
(1)Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA.

BACKGROUND: Studies in animals and an open-label trial have suggested a role for 
antibodies to tumor necrosis factor alpha, specifically chimeric monoclonal 
antibody cA2, in the treatment of Crohn's disease.
METHODS: We conducted a 12-week multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
trial of cA2 in 108 patients with moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease that was 
resistant to treatment. All had scores on the Crohn's Disease Activity Index 
between 220 and 400 (scores can range from 0 to about 600, with higher scores 
indicating more severe illness). Patients were randomly assigned to receive a 
single two-hour intravenous infusion of either placebo or cA2 in a dose of 5 mg 
per kilogram of body weight, 10 mg per kilogram, or 20 mg per kilogram. Clinical 
response, the primary end point, was defined as a reduction of 70 or more points 
in the score on the Crohn's Disease Activity Index at four weeks that was not 
accompanied by a change in any concomitant medications.
RESULTS: At four weeks, 81 percent of the patients given 5 mg of cA2 per 
kilogram (22 of 27 patients), 50 percent of those given 10 mg of cA2 per 
kilogram (14 of 28), and 64 percent of those given 20 mg of cA2 per kilogram (18 
of 28) had had a clinical response, as compared with 17 percent of patients in 
the placebo group (4 of 24) (p<0.001 for the comparison of the cA2 group as a 
whole with placebo). Thirty-three percent of the patients given cA2 went into 
remission (defined as a score below 150 on the Crohn's Disease Activity Index), 
as compared with 4 percent of the patients given placebo (P=0.005). At 12 weeks, 
41 percent of the cA2-treated patients (34 of 83) had had a clinical response, 
as compared with 12 percent of the patients in the placebo group (3 of 25) 
(P=0.008). The rates of adverse effects were similar in the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: A single infusion of cA2 was an effective short-term treatment in 
many patients with moderate-to-severe, treatment-resistant Crohn's disease.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199710093371502
PMID: 9321530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]