---
reference_id: PMID:35803286
title: "Safety and efficacy of mosunetuzumab, a bispecific antibody, in patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma: a single-arm, multicentre, phase 2 study."
authors:
- Budde LE
- Sehn LH
- Matasar M
- Schuster SJ
- Assouline S
- Giri P
- Kuruvilla J
- Canales M
- Dietrich S
- Fay K
- Ku M
- Nastoupil L
- Cheah CY
- Wei MC
- Yin S
- Li CC
- Huang H
- Kwan A
- Penuel E
- Bartlett NL
journal: Lancet Oncol
year: '2022'
doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(22)00335-7
keywords:
- "Antibodies, Bispecific/adverse effects"
- Antineoplastic Agents/adverse effects
- Humans
- "Lymphoma, Follicular/drug therapy, pathology"
- "Neoplasm Recurrence, Local/drug therapy"
- Treatment Outcome
content_type: abstract_only
---

# Safety and efficacy of mosunetuzumab, a bispecific antibody, in patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma: a single-arm, multicentre, phase 2 study.
**Authors:** Budde LE, Sehn LH, Matasar M, Schuster SJ, Assouline S, Giri P, Kuruvilla J, Canales M, Dietrich S, Fay K, Ku M, Nastoupil L, Cheah CY, Wei MC, Yin S, Li CC, Huang H, Kwan A, Penuel E, Bartlett NL
**Journal:** Lancet Oncol (2022)
**DOI:** [10.1016/S1470-2045(22)00335-7](https://doi.org/10.1016/S1470-2045(22)00335-7)

## Content

1. Lancet Oncol. 2022 Aug;23(8):1055-1065. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(22)00335-7.
Epub  2022 Jul 5.

Safety and efficacy of mosunetuzumab, a bispecific antibody, in patients with 
relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma: a single-arm, multicentre, phase 2 
study.

Budde LE(1), Sehn LH(2), Matasar M(3), Schuster SJ(4), Assouline S(5), Giri 
P(6), Kuruvilla J(7), Canales M(8), Dietrich S(9), Fay K(10), Ku M(11), 
Nastoupil L(12), Cheah CY(13), Wei MC(14), Yin S(14), Li CC(14), Huang H(15), 
Kwan A(14), Penuel E(14), Bartlett NL(16).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation, City of Hope 
National Medical Center, Duarte, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, BC Cancer Centre for Lymphoid Cancer, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada; Department of Medicine, The University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(3)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, 
USA.
(4)Lymphoma Translational Research, Abramson Cancer Center, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(5)Division of Hematology, Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(6)Department of Haematology, Royal Adelaide Hospital, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(7)Division of Medical Oncology and Hematology, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(8)Servicio de Hematología, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, Spain.
(9)Department of Internal Medicine V: Hematology, Oncology and Rheumatology, 
Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
(10)Department of Haematology, Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Department of Haematology, St Vincent's Hospital, University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(11)Department of Haematology, St Vincent's Hospital, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(12)Department of Lymphoma/Myeloma, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(13)Linear Clinical Research, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Perth, WA, 
Australia; Lymphoma Translational Research, Abramson Cancer Center, University 
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA; Department of Haematology, The 
University of Western Australia, Perth, WA, Australia.
(14)Genentech, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(15)F Hoffmann-La Roche, Mississauga, ON, Canada.
(16)Division of Oncology, Siteman Cancer Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St Louis, MO, USA. Electronic address: nbartlet@wustl.edu.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2022 Aug;23(8):967-969. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(22)00385-0.

BACKGROUND: Mosunetuzumab is a CD20 × CD3 T-cell-engaging bispecific monoclonal 
antibody that redirects T cells to eliminate malignant B cells. In a phase 1 
study, mosunetuzumab was well tolerated and active in patients with relapsed or 
refractory B-cell lymphoma. We, therefore, aimed to evaluate the safety and 
anti-tumour activity of fixed-duration mosunetuzumab in patients with relapsed 
or refractory follicular lymphoma who had received two or more previous 
therapies.
METHODS: We conducted a single-arm, multicentre, phase 2 study at 49 centres in 
seven countries (Australia, Canada, Germany, South Korea, Spain, UK, and USA). 
All patients were aged 18 years or older with histologically confirmed 
follicular lymphoma (grade 1-3a) and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
performance status of 0-1. Patients had disease that was relapsed or refractory 
to two or more previous lines of treatment, including an anti-CD20 therapy and 
an alkylating agent. Intravenous mosunetuzumab was administered in 21-day cycles 
with cycle 1 step-up dosing: 1 mg on cycle 1 day 1, 2 mg on cycle 1 day 8, 60 mg 
on cycle 1 day 15 and cycle 2 day 1, and 30 mg on day 1 of cycle 3 and onwards. 
Patients with a complete response by investigator assessment using the 
International Harmonisation Project criteria completed treatment after cycle 8, 
whereas patients with a partial response or stable disease continued treatment 
for up to 17 cycles. The primary endpoint was independent review 
committee-assessed complete response rate (as best response) in all enrolled 
patients; the primary efficacy analysis compared the observed IRC-assessed 
complete response rate with a 14% historical control complete response rate in a 
similar patient population receiving the pan class I PI3K inhibitor copanlisib. 
Safety was assessed in all enrolled patients. This study is registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT02500407, and is ongoing.
FINDINGS: Between May 2, 2019, and Sept 25, 2020, we enrolled 90 patients. As of 
the data cutoff date (Aug 27, 2021), the median follow-up was 18·3 months (IQR 
13·8-23·3). According to independent review committee assessment, a complete 
response was recorded in 54 patients (60·0% [95% CI 49·1-70·2]). The observed 
complete response rate was significantly higher than the historical control 
complete response rate with copanlisib of 14% (p<0·0001), thereby meeting the 
primary study endpoint. Cytokine release syndrome was the most common adverse 
event (40 [44%] of 90 patients) and was predominantly grade 1 (23 [26%] of 90) 
and grade 2 (15 [17%]), and primarily confined to cycle 1. The most common grade 
3-4 adverse events were neutropenia or neutrophil count decreased (24 [27%] of 
90 patients), hypophosphataemia (15 [17%]), hyperglycaemia (seven [8%]), and 
anaemia (seven [8%]). Serious adverse events occurred in 42 (47%) of 90 
patients. No treatment-related grade 5 (ie, fatal) adverse event occurred.
INTERPRETATION: Fixed-duration mosunetuzumab has a favourable safety profile and 
induces high rates of complete remissions, allowing potential administration as 
an outpatient regimen, in patients with relapsed or refractory follicular 
lymphoma and two or more previous therapies.
FUNDING: F Hoffmann-La Roche and Genentech.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(22)00335-7
PMID: 35803286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests LEB reports consulting 
fees from Genentech, ADC Therapeutics, Merck, AstraZeneca, and Amgen; and 
participation on a data safety monitoring board for Ziopharm Oncology. LHS 
reports research grants from Roche/Genentech and Teva; consulting fees from 
AbbVie, Acerta, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Celgene/Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS), 
Gilead/Kite/Incyte, Janssen, Roche/Genentech, MorphoSys, Sandoz, and TG 
therapeutics; and honoraria from AbbVie, Acerta, Amgen, AstraZeneca, 
Celgene/BMS, Gilead/Kite/Incyte, Janssen, Roche/Genentech, MorphoSys, Sandoz, 
and TG therapeutics. MM reports research grants from AstraZeneca, Genentech, 
Janssen, Roche, Bayer, IGM Biosciences, Pharmacyclics, and Seattle Genetics; 
payment or honoraria from lectures, presentations, speaker's bureaus or 
manuscript writing, or educational events from ADC Therapeutics, Bayer, Daiichi 
Sankyo, MEI Pharma, Genentech, Seattle Genetics, Epizyme, IMV Therapeutics, 
Janssen, Pharmacyclics, and Roche; payment from expert testimony from Bayer; and 
owns stock or stock options in Merck. SJS reports grants or contracts from 
Genentech, AbbVie, Acerta, AstraZeneca, Celgene/BMS/Juno, Incyte, Merck, 
Novartis, TG Therapeutics, and Theredex; consulting fees from AstraZeneca, 
BeiGene, Celgene/BMS/Juno, Genentech/Roche, Genmab, Incyte, Janssen, MorphoSys, 
Mustang Biotech, Novartis, and Regeneron; payment or honoraria from lectures, 
presentations, speaker's bureaus or manuscript writing, or educational events 
for Incyte, Novartis, and Takeda; participation on a monitoring board or 
advisory board for AstraZeneca, BeiGene, Celgene/BMS/Juno, Genentech/Roche, 
Genmab, Incyte, Janssen, MorphoSys, Mustang Biotech, Novartis, and Regeneron; a 
role in board, society, committee, or advocacy groups for Genentech, Legend 
Biotech, Novartis, and Nordic Nanovector; and research support for Genentech and 
Merck. SA reports research grants from AbbVie, Roche, Genentech, Takeda, Lilly, 
and Merck; speaker's bureau from Pfizer; and is chair of the haematology group 
(unpaid) of the Canadian Cancer Trials Group. JK reports research grants from 
Roche, AstraZeneca, and Merck; consulting fees from AbbVie, Antengene, BMS, 
Gilead, Karyopharm, Medison Ventures, Merck, Roche, and Seattle Genetics; 
payment or honoraria from lectures, presentations, and educational events for 
AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, BMS, Gilead, Incyte, Janssen, Karyopharm, Merck, 
Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, and Seattle Genetics; participation in a data safety 
monitoring board for Karyopharm; and participation as chair, scientific advisory 
board, and director in the board of directors for Lymphoma Canada. MC reports 
consulting fees from BeiGene, BMS, Incyte, Janssen, Kite, Kyowa, Miltenyi 
Biotec, Novartis, Roche, and Takeda; payment from lectures, presentations, 
speaker's bureaus or manuscript writing, or educational events from Amgen, Eusa 
Pharma, Janssen, Kite, Kyowa, Roche, and Takeda; and meeting attendance or 
travel support, or both, from Kite, Janssen, Roche, Sanofi, and Takeda. LN 
reports grants from BMS, Caribou Biosciences, Epizyme, Gilead/Kite, Janssen, IGM 
Biosciences, Takeda, and TG Therapeutics; payment or honoraria from lectures, 
presentations, speaker's bureaus or manuscript writing, or educational events 
from Genentech, Gilead/Kite, and Takeda; meeting attendance or travel, or both, 
support from Genentech; and participation in data safety monitoring board or 
advisory board for ADC Therapeutics, Bayer, Epizyme, BMS, MorphoSys, Novartis, 
Genentech, Takeda, MEI, DeNovo, and TG Therapeutics. CYC reports payment or 
honoraria from lectures, presentations, speaker's bureaus or manuscript writing, 
or educational events for Janssen, AstraZeneca, Roche, and Beigene; and 
participation in data safety monitoring board or advisory board for Roche, 
Janssen, TG Therapeutics, AstraZeneca, Lilly, and Gilead. MCW reports meeting 
attendance or travel support, or both, from Roche/Genentech; and stocks and 
stock options in Roche. SY reports meeting attendance or travel support, or 
both, for Genentech; patents planned, issued, or pending from Genentech; and 
stocks and stock options in Genentech. C-CL reports stocks and stock options in 
Roche; and patents planned, issued, or pending for Genentech. AK reports stocks 
or stock options in Roche. EP reports stocks or stock options in Genentech. NLB 
reports research funding from ADC Therapeutics, Affimed, Autolus, BMS, Celgene, 
Forty Seven, Immune Design, Janssen, Kite Pharma, Merck, Millennium, Pfizer, 
Pharmacyclics, Roche/Genentech, and Seattle Genetics. All other authors declare 
no competing interests.